Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
MEMO 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Charles Bloom, Planning and Development Director 
Subject: PLTA-25-2 – An ordinance amending Sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 5.1.4, 5.7.10 and 5.8.2 of the 
Unified Development Code to define recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds, 
designate zone districts for their operation, create specific use standards for recreational 
vehicle parks campgrounds, and revise manufactured home and parks regulations as 
necessary. 
Date: October 13, 2025 
 
Background:  
The item for consideration is a UDC Text Amendment. This is approved by Ordinance. The proposed 
Governing Body review schedule is as follows: 
• Introduction and Referral  October 13, 2025 
• Public Services Committee  October 20, 2025 
• Second reading    October 27, 2025 
• Public Services Committee  November 3, 2025 
• Third and final reading   November 10, 2025 
 
Planning Commission Recommendation:  
The Planning Commission considered this item on September 15, 2025, and postponed it to October 3, 
2025, to allow further discussion of proposed amendments to the recreational vehicle park and 
campground development standards, including clarifications to minimum lot area, water and sewer 
requirements, application of junk and nuisance provisions, and grammatical updates related to spaces 
occupied for more than 180 days. 
 
At the October 3, 2025, meeting, the Planning Commission unanimously voted to recommend that the 
Governing Body approve the proposed text amendment with modifications. The modifications include 
removing the minimum lot area requirement, reorganizing the section to clarify that recreational vehicle 
spaces may not be occupied by vehicles considered junk or a nuisance, requiring water and sewer 
connections for all spaces, and making grammatical corrections. These modifications are reflected in the 
attached ordinance. 
 
The October 3, 2025, Planning Commission staff report is also attached and has not been changed. 
 
Attachments: 
1. Ordinance 
2. Redlined Ordinance 
3. October 3, 2025 Planning Commission Staff Report 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: “AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 5.1.4, 5.7.10 AND 
5.8.2 OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO DEFINE 
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS AND CAMPGROUNDS, 
DESIGNATE ZONE DISTRICTS FOR THEIR OPERATION, CREATE 
SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS 
CAMPGROUNDS, AND REVISE MANUFACTURED HOME AND PARKS 
REGULATIONS AS NECESSARY.” 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC). 
 
Section 2 .  That on October 6, 2025, the Cheyenne Planning Commission conducted a 
public hearing, reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text 
amendment with modifications. 
 
Section 3.  That Section 1.4.3 of the UDC is amended to read as follows: 
 
1.4.3 Defined Terms 
 
All words and phrases shall have their ordinary and customary meanings unless the context of the 
word or phrase indicates otherwise. The following terms shall have the meaning given below, 
unless the context of the use of the term clearly indicates otherwise based on the Purposes, Intent, 
Design Objective or other guidance associated with its use in a particular section. 
 
Abutting.  A description of proximity where two elements share a common boundary. 
 
Access Point.  A driveway, internal access street or similar vehicular entrance or exit to the interior 
of a block, lot or parcel from a street. 
 
Accessory Use.  A subordinate use, clearly incidental and related to the principal use and located 
on the same property. 
 
Activity Center.  Places where economic and social activity are focused. In addition, where the 
code specifically references PlanCheyenne or references specific types of activity centers 
described in PlanCheyenne the additional guidance in the Plan may be used to determine the 
context or applicability of a particular standard. 
 
Adjacent.  A description of the proximity of two elements which includes abutting and any 
surrounding vicinity where the impacts described could be reasonably assumed to extend. 
 
Page 2 of 31 
 
Alley.  A low capacity, low speed and minor street or access way typically located on the rear or 
side of properties and used for access to parking, service areas, accessory buildings or easements 
and not intended for through traffic. 
 
Antenna.  Any exterior transmitting or receiving communication device mounted on a tower, 
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture electromagnetic waves, 
digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies (excluding radar signals), wi reless 
telecommunications signals or other communication signals. 
 
Appeal.  A written request for a review of any final action or decision allowed by the provisions 
of this Title. 
 
Applicant.  Any person(s), firm, corporation or entity requesting permission or desiring to 
officially apply for any action regulated by this Title. 
 
Average Daily Traffic (ADT).  The total volume of vehicles during a given time period  (in whole 
days greater than one day and less than one year) divided by the number of days in that time period. 
 
Awning.  A shelter constructed of non -rigid materials along windows and sidewalks at the first 
story of a building, and mounted on a supporting framework projecting from and supported by the 
exterior wall of a building. 
 
Base Flood Elevation.  The elevation of the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or 
exceeded in any given year. 
 
Berm.  A mound of earth designed to provide a screen. 
 
Best Management Practice.  A technique, process, activity, or structure used to reduce pollutant 
discharges in stormwater. BMPs include source control practices (non -structural BMPs) and 
engineered structures designed to treat runoff. BMPs are most effective when used in combination 
and selected and designed based on site-specific characteristics. 
 
Bicycle Route.  A portion of a system of bikeways designated by appropriate route markers which 
can be a bicycle trail or bikeway. 
 
Bicycle Trail.  A trail or path separated from motor vehicles and designated exclusively for bicycles 
or shared by bicycles and pedestrians.  
 
Bikeway.  A street designed to incorporate bicycle travel through either shared vehicle / bicycle 
lanes or designated bicycle lanes. 
 
Billboard.  A sign structure advertising an establishment, a message, merchandise, service or 
entertainment which is not located, sold, produced, manufactured or furnished at the property on 
which the sign is located. Billboard includes Digital Billboard as defined in this code. 
 
Blinking.  A form of flashing where the pattern of sudden illumination changes occurs with more 
than 2 on-off cycles per second. 
Page 3 of 31 
 
 
Block.  An area of land that is entirely bounded by streets or other boundary  permitted by these 
regulations where streets are not appropriate based on the context. 
 
Block Frontage.  The side or sides of a block that the majority of the lots or tracts face. 
 
BMP Maintenance.  Routinely scheduled activities, as well as non -routine repairs that may be 
required after large storms, or as a result of other unforeseen problems, as necessary to ensure 
proper BMP function. 
 
Building.  Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy. 
 
Building, Accessory.  A detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental and 
related to that of the principal building or use of the land, and which is located on the same property 
as that of the principal structure or use. 
 
Building, Attached .  A building having one or more party walls in common with an adjacent 
building. 
 
Building, Detached.  A building having no common wall or structural attachment with another 
building. 
 
Building, Existing.  A building erected prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified in this Title, 
or prior to the effective date of a provision in this Title, whichever is earlier, or one for which a 
building permit has been issued, or erected in accordance with this code after its adoption. 
 
Building, Nonconforming.  A building existing or one for which a building permit has been issued 
at the time of the adoption of this code which does not comply with the regulations of the zoning 
district in which the building is located. 
 
Building, Principal.  A building in which is conducted the main or principal use of the property on 
which the building is situated. 
 
Canopy.  A shelter constructed of rigid materials covered with fabric, metal or other material, 
along windows and sidewalks at the first story of a building, and projecting from the exterior wall, 
which may be freestanding or supported by a building at one or more points and by columns or 
posts embedded in the ground at other points. 
 
Caretaker Unit.  One or more living quarters or lodging facilities located within a non-residential 
building for the use of employees of the use. A Caretaker Unit shall not be considered a ‘residential 
use’ or ‘residential unit’ for the purposes of this code but shall be c onsidered part of the non -
residential square footage for the purposes of the code. The combined square footage of all 
Caretaker Units shall not comprise more than ten (10) percent of the principal use’s building square 
footage (should dwel ling area exceed this amount, the living area shall be determined to be a 
“Mixed-use Dwelling” and a residential use for the purposes of this code). A Caretaker Unit is 
allowed as part of the approval of the principal use without any more restrictive approval process 
than that warranted for the principal use. 
Page 4 of 31 
 
 
Certificate of Compliance.  A certificate issued by the Development Office which indicates that 
the site plan requirements have been met. 
 
Changeable Sign .  A sign whose informational content can be changed or altered by manual, 
electric, electromechanical or electronic means. Changeable signs do not include Digital 
Billboards as defined in this code. 
 
Change of Use.  Change of use constitutes at least one of the following: 
1. The proposed use is appreciably different than the current use; 
2. There is an increase in the size of the existing building or extent of the use of the land; 
3. The use is permitted in the zoning district in which the use is located, but requires more 
parking than the previous use; 
4. The number of vehicle trips generated by the new use is or will be greater than the number 
of vehicle trips generated by the previous use as determined by the Institute of 
Transportation Engineers Trip Generation, latest edition; 
5. The amount of stormwater runoff or impervious (to drainage) surface area will be increased 
with the new use. 
 
Channel.  A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conveys 
continuously or periodically flowing water. Interchangeable terms include creek, drainageway, 
river, stream, and watercourse. 
 
City Engineer.  The City of Cheyenne City Engineer, his designated representative or the City 
Engineering Department. 
 
Comprehensive Plan .  The general plan for land use, transportation, utilities, annexation, and 
community facilities prepared and maintained by the Commission, and any other more specific 
plan, program or policy prepared under the guidance of that plan. 
 
Construction, New.  Structures for which the construction commenced on or after the effective 
date of the ordinance codified in this Title. 
 
Construction, Start of.  The first placement of permanent construction of a structure (other than a 
manufactured home), such as the excavation of footings or foundations, or the pouring of slabs or 
foundations. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clea ring, grading 
and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and/or sidewalks. For a structure (other 
than a manufactured home) without a basement or poured footings, the “start of construction” 
includes the first permanent framing or assembl y of the structure or any part thereof on its piling 
or foundation. For manufactured home not within a manufactured home park or subdivision, “start 
of construction” means the affixing of the manufactured home to its permanent site. For 
manufactured home within manufactured home parks or manufactured home subdivisions, “start 
of construction” is the date on which the structure is to be affixed. 
 
Corner lot.  See “Lot, corner.” 
 
Crosswalk.  Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing. 
Page 5 of 31 
 
 
Cul-de-sac.  A short dead-end street terminating with a vehicular turn-around area. 
 
Curb Radii.  The curved or flared portion of a street curb at driveway approaches or intersections. 
 
Decorative Fence .  A fence constructed out of materials such as wood, stone, or metal, or a 
combination thereof, primarily for aesthetic purposes to enhance the appearance of a property and 
generally not obstructing the visibility into or out of a property. A decorative fenc e shall not 
include chain link, wire, snow fences, or a standard wooden or vinyl privacy fences 
 
Detention.  The temporary storage of storm runoff in a stormwater management facility with the 
goals of controlling peak discharge rates and providing gravity settling of pollutants. 
 
Detention Facility .  A detention basin or alternative structure designed for the purpose of 
temporary storage of stream flow or surface runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled 
rates. 
 
Developer.  The owner of land proposed for development, or the owner’s authorized 
representative, or any person who causes the following to take place either directly or indirectly: 
division of property for the purpose of development; sells, leases or develops propert y, or offers 
or advertises or otherwise engages in business for the same; or has control or is controlled in such 
a way to have influence in any of the above. 
 
Development.  Any man-made change to real estate, including, but not limited to, the construction 
of buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling. 
 
Development Footprint .  The development footprint is the total land area that is permanently 
affected by development activities, and includes buildings, structures, hardscape, utilities, roads 
and parking areas, maneuvering areas, storage areas, areas associated with the use on the property, 
and areas cleared of natural vegetation and topsoil. 
 
Digital Billboard.  A billboard displaying static images controlled by electronic communications. 
 
Dissolve.  A transition between digital messages that is achieved with varying light intensity and 
where the first message gradually appears to dissipate and loses legibility simultaneous to the 
gradual appearance and legibility of the subsequent message. 
 
Double frontage lot.  See “Lot, double frontage.” 
 
Drive-in or Drive -up Facility .  A portion of an establishment designed for retail or service to 
persons in automobiles, including a driveway approach, order facilities, signs and delivery 
windows. 
 
Driveway.  A vehicle access way located on private property. 
 
Driveway Approach .  A constructed vehicle access point within the right -of-way between the 
roadway and the adjacent property line. 
Page 6 of 31 
 
 
Dwelling Unit .  One or more rooms which are intended for human occupancy as a place of 
residence with facilities for living, cooking and eating for one family unit, manifesting around one 
single kitchen, excluding wet bars with no stove or range, and one single laundry facility. Cooking 
facilities and other accommodations, such as laundry, should be accessible to all occupants of the 
dwelling through internally connected spaces. 
 
Easement.  A permanent or temporary grant of right by a property owner to the public, a 
corporation or other person(s) for the use of a strip or parcel of land for specified purposes. 
Ownership shall remain with the property owner. 
 
Electrical Sign.  A sign or sign structure in which electrical wiring, connections or fixtures are 
used. Electrical sign does not include a digital billboard as defined in this section. 
 
Fade.  A transition between static message displays that is achieved with varying light intensity 
and where the first message gradually loses light intensity to the point of not being legible and the 
subsequent message gradually increases intensity to the point of legibility. 
 
Family Unit.  One or more persons who are related by blood, marriage, domestic partnership or 
legal adoption living together as a single household; or a group of not more than four (4) persons 
not related by blood, marriage, domestic partnership or legal adoption, livin g together as a single 
household. 
 
Fence.  A man -made partition, structure, wall or a gate erected as a dividing marker, barrier, 
enclosure or screening device. 
 
Flag.  A sign made of fabric or other non-rigid material with no enclosing framework containing 
distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols, used as identification for or a symbol of a government, 
political subdivision, or other entity. 
 
Flashing.  A pattern of changing light illumination where the sign illumination alternates suddenly 
between fully illuminated and fully non-illuminated in a time frame of less than 4 seconds. 
 
Floor Area Ratio (FAR).  The total square feet of the building divided by the total square feet of 
the lot the building is located on. 
 
Foot Candle.  A unit of illuminance equal to 1 lumen, uniformly incident upon an area of 1 square 
foot. 
 
Freeboard.  A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of 
floodplain management. Freeboard compensates for the many unknown factors that could 
contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for the design flood. 
 
Functional turf grass .  An area of living turf grass or lawn that is used regularly for human 
recreational purposes or domestic animal use. Functional turf grass or lawns include Kentucky 
bluegrasses, fescues, or similar sod -forming grasses requiring ½ inch or more of supplementa l 
watering per week during hot, dry periods. 
Page 7 of 31 
 
 
Garage.  A building or portions of a building for the storage of automobiles or other property, 
accessory to the principle use of the site. 
 
Greenway.  A linear open space established along either a natural corridor, such as a stream valley, 
or overland along a road or railroad right -of-way converted to recreational use; a natural or 
landscaped course prepared for pedestrian or bicycle passage; certain de signated strips or linear 
parks and open spaces connected and designated by the City as part of the Greenway System. 
 
Height.  When referring to a tower or other structure, height is the distance measured from the 
finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or other structure, including the base 
pad and any antenna. 
 
High-power Transmission Lines .  Transmission lines which carry sixty -nine thousand (69,000) 
volts or more. 
 
Immediate.  A transition between static message displays that is achieved in 2 seconds or less. 
 
Impoundment Yard.  A fenced yard or enclosed area where storage of vehicles seized by, and in 
the custody of, a government agency, are stored for retrieval by the vehicle owner or are sold by 
proper means by the agency. 
 
Improvement.  Buildings, structures and all facilities of a public nature indented for public use – 
including streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, alleys and other public ways, parks, recreational 
facilities, water, sewage, solid waste disposal and other sanitary systems and facilities. 
 
Infill Development .  For commercial or residential parcels shall be defined by the following 
criteria: 
1. One parcel surrounded by urban development on at least three sides (does not have to be 
directly adjacent to); and 
2. Served by existing underground sewer and water utilities. 
 
Infiltration.  The process of percolating stormwater into the subsoil. 
 
Interior lot.  See “Lot, interior.” 
 
Intermittent.  A pattern of changing light intensity, other than that achieved with immediate, fade 
or dissolve transitions, where any message remains static for over 4 seconds. 
 
Intersection.  The junction of two streets. 
 
Land Disturbance Activity.  Grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil, placement 
of fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any activity which 
bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any natural or man-made watercourse. 
 
Landscape Points System .  The point system used for determining the minimum vegetation 
requirement. 
Page 8 of 31 
 
 
Landscaped Setback.  The minimum required landscaping area on private or government -owned 
property which is adjacent to a property line common to a street right -of-way. Driveways and 
sidewalks to afford required access shall be allowed to interrupt this required space. 
 
Landscape, Street Tree Area.  The landscaped area between property line and the street, within the 
right-of-way. 
 
Landscaping.  Any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, 
flowers or grass; natural features, such as rock, stone, bark chips or shavings; and structural 
features, including, but not limited to, fountains, reflecting pools, outside art  work, screen walls, 
fences or benches. 
 
Landscaping, Internal .  That area that lies within the property lines not covered by buildings, 
parking, outside storage, sidewalks and driveways. 
 
Landscaping, Xeriscape.  A water-saving landscape design that limits turf areas, utilizes mulches, 
efficient irrigation (often drip or subsurface) and use of native or drought-tolerant plant materials. 
When done properly, it is as lush and green as traditional landscapes, but has the benefits of lower 
water use and less maintenance after establishment. 
 
Loading Space.  An on- or off-street space for the standing, loading, and unloading of vehicles, 
people or articles. 
 
Lot.  A designated unit of land established by a plat or otherwise as permitted by law, for the 
transfer of ownership or to be used, developed, or built upon, whether immediate or future. 
 
Low Impact Development (LID).  An approach to land development (or redevelopment) that works 
with nature to manage stormwater as close to its source as possible. LID emphasizes conservation 
and use of on-site natural features to protect water quality. This approach implements engineered  
small-scale hydrologic controls to mimic the pre -development hydrologic regime of watersheds 
through infiltrating, filtering, storing, evaporating, and detaining runoff. The term Green 
Infrastructure may also be used. 
 
Major Drainageway.  Any drainage flow path mapped with an area of special flood hazard on the 
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). 
 
Manufactured Home.  A structure transportable in one or more sections which, in the traveling 
mode, is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, 
is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a 
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and 
includes the plumbing, heating, air- conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except 
that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except 
the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification 
required by the secretary (HUD) and complies with the standards established by HUD. For 
manufactured homes built prior to June 15, 1976, a label certifying compliance to the standard for 
mobile homes, NFPA 501, ANSI 119.1, in effect at the time of manufacture is required. 
Page 9 of 31 
 
 
Massage Therapy.  A medical service that emphasizes the therapeutic benefits of massage, aiming 
to address specific health concerns and practiced by a person who holds a massage therapist permit 
pursuant to chapter 5.52, title 5, of the city code. 
 
Moving Light.  The physical change in position of any visible illumination source while lighted or 
the simulation of movement achieves with a pattern of sequentially illuminating visible 
illumination sources within close proximity to each other. 
 
MS4 Permit.  A state or federal stormwater discharge permit to regulate discharges from municipal 
separate storm sewer systems (MS4s) for compliance with Clean Water Act regulations; used 
interchangeably with the term National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit 
and collectively referred to as federal stormwater discharge permit. 
 
Nonfunctional turf grass.  An area of living turf grass or lawn that is not used regularly for human 
recreational purposes or domestic animal use. Nonfunctional turf grass or lawns include Kentucky 
bluegrasses, fescues, or similar sod -forming grasses requiring ½ inch or more of supplemental 
watering per week during hot, dry periods. 
 
Nonpoint Source Pollution.  Pollution from any source other than from any discernible, confined, 
and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not be limited to, pollutants from agricultural, 
silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources. 
 
Off-premise Sign.  Any sign not identified as a “Billboard” and which is used for the purpose of 
displaying, advertising, identifying, or directing attention to a business, service, activity or place, 
including products or services sold or offered for sale, on premises other than the premises where 
such sign is displayed. 
 
Open Space Systems .  A system of various types of outdoor space, designed to function as 
aesthetic, recreation, and ecological support for development. Elements of the open space system 
can include private, common, or public open spaces. 
 
Owner.  The owner of record of a parcel of land, as recorded in the office of the county clerk. 
 
Parapet. The architectural enhancement in the design of the façade that extends ornamental details 
above a roof line to the extent necessary to screen the roof and roof-top equipment. 
 
Parcel.  A contiguous unit of land owned and recorded as the property of the same persons or 
controlled by a single entity. 
 
Parking Lot.  An area other than a street or alley designated for the parking of five or more motor 
vehicles. 
 
Parking Space.  A space specially designed for the parking of a motor vehicle. 
 
Party Wall.  A wall common to two or more units which are intended to be individually owned. 
 
Page 10 of 31 
 
Pedestrian.  A person on foot or a self -propelled conveyance intended for use of persons with 
physical impairments. 
 
Person.  An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, or association, or any combination of these, 
or any other legal or commercial entity acting as a unit. 
 
Pre-existing Towers and Pre-existing Antennas.  Any tower or antenna for which a building permit 
or wireless telecommunications permit (WTP) was issued prior to the effective date of this Title, 
including permitted towers or antennas that have not yet been constructed so long as such approval 
is current and not expired. 
 
Public Drainage System .  The system of storm sewers, channels, culverts, creeks, flows within 
public streets, and associated detention and water quality structures owned and maintained by the 
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, or the Wyoming Department of Transportation. 
 
Public Land.  Land owned, controlled and/or operated by a governmental unit. 
 
Published Notice.  A notice provided in accordance with Wyoming Statutes. 
 
Recreational Vehicle (RV) . A vehicle or unit primarily designed for human habitation for 
recreation or travel, which may include a motor home, camper, travel trailer, or park model 
recreational vehicle. 
 
Redevelopment.  The replacement of impervious surfaces on a developed site that is surrounded 
by urban development on at least three sides. Redevelopment occurs when the existing facilities 
are demolished and rebuilt or substantially changed through reconstruction. Resurf acing parking 
lots with no charge in overall dimensions or drainage patterns is not considered redevelopment 
even if the pavement is completely replaced. 
 
Regional Detention Facilities.  A system or parts of a system to control run-off from a defined area 
within a drainage basin and designed to coordinate with other similar facilities to manage the 
drainage basin and tributaries, typically considering areas greater than 100 acres or capaci ties of 
more than 30 acre -feet or as otherwise specified in a drainage master plan or current Storm 
Drainage Manual. 
 
Remainder Lot.  A lot or tract of land designated on a plat which is not eligible for development, 
or to service adjacent development, and may be reserved for future platting. A remainder lot shall 
not be for the purpose of sale, lease, or financing; nor be eligible for development. Remainder lots 
shall not be required to meet the dimensional standards of the zoning district. Developed 
properties, excluding land developed for agricultural purposes, are not eligible to be remainder 
lots. Remainder lot(s) must be referred to as “outlots”, “remainder lots”, or “tracts” on plats. 
 
Right-of-way.  Land dedicated and set aside for use by the public, primarily for the right of vehicle 
or pedestrian travel, but typically designed to include multiple and other public purposes. 
 
Roadway.  That portion of a street designed and intended primarily for vehicles. 
 
Page 11 of 31 
 
Sanitary System.  A sewer system or systems including mechanisms of collection, treatment and 
disposal of domestic and/or commercial sewage. 
 
Screening.  A feature used to visually separate elements on abutting or adjacent development sites. 
 
Self-Contained Unit.  A recreational vehicle equipped with its own water supply, sanitary facilities, 
and wastewater containment, capable of independent habitation without reliance on shared 
utilities, except for electrical or water hookups. 
 
Sidewalk.  That portion of a street designed and intended primarily for use of pedestrians. 
 
Sign.  Any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display illustration or insignia, or other 
identification, that is visible from any public place or is located on private property and exposed 
to the public and that directs attention to a product, service, pla ce, activity, person, institution, 
business or solicitation, including structures that exist to support or enhance the sign. 
 
Sign, Animated.  A sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or create a 
special effect or scene. 
 
Signs, Building Marker.  A sign indicating the name of a building, a date and incidental information 
about its construction, cut into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material. 
 
Sign, Abandoned.  A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide business, service, 
owner, product, or activity, and/or for which no legal owner can be found. 
 
Sign, Electronic Message Center .  A sign where alphabetic, pictographic or symbolic 
informational content can be changed or altered on a fixed display surface composed of electrically 
illuminated or mechanically driven, changeable segments. 
 
Sign, Government.  A sign erected and maintained by the United States or state of Wyoming, or 
any political subdivision thereof, for traffic direction or for designation of or direction to any 
school, hospital, historical site or public service, property or facility. 
 
Sign, Nameplate.  A sign giving only the name, address and/or occupation of an occupant or group 
of occupants. 
 
Sign, Portable.  A sign not permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure, or a 
sign designed to be transported, including, but not limited to, signs designed to be transported by 
means of wheels, signs converted to A - or T-frames, and balloons used as si gns. “Portable sign” 
shall not include umbrellas used for advertising, signs carried by individuals, and signs attached 
to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right -of-way when such vehicle is 
used in the normal day-to-day operations of a business. 
 
Site Plan.  A plan of the land showing the existing and proposed features for the property. 
 
Static.  Having no motion within a particular message or copy displayed on a digital billboard. 
 
Page 12 of 31 
 
Storm Sewer.  An underground pipe system that carries stormwater from streets and other surfaces 
and discharges directly to a pond, stream or river; used interchangeably with the term “storm 
drain.” 
 
Stormwater Management.  Anything associated with the planning, construction, maintenance, or 
regulation of facilities which collect, store, convey or treat stormwater. 
 
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).  A written plan required under state and federal 
stormwater discharge permits identifying measures that will be implemented to minimize the 
discharge of pollutants in stormwater. Requirements for SWPPPs are specified in state and federal 
discharge permits. Requirements vary depending on whether the discharge permit is associated 
with municipal, industrial, or construction activities. 
 
Stormwater Retrofit.  A stormwater management practice designed for an existing development 
site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate 
to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site. 
 
Stormwater Runoff.  Also known as Stormwater, means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting 
from precipitation. Interchangeable terms include drainage and runoff. 
 
Street.  Any public way for the movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic which is an existing 
federal, state, county or municipal roadway; or a right -of-way shown upon a plat, and approved 
pursuant to law, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise pavement, shoulders, curbs, 
gutters, sidewalks, parking areas and other areas within the right-of- way. 
 
Street, Arterial .  Refers to the functional classification of a street in the entire transportation 
network, which has considerable continuity over long distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the context, the stan dards in these 
regulations, and other specific transportation plans and policies. 
 
Street, Collector.  Refers to the functional classification of a street in the entire transportation 
network, which has moderate continuity over medium distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the context, the standa rds in these 
regulations, and other specific transportation plans and policies. 
 
Street, Local.  Refers to the functional classification of a street in the entire transportation network, 
which has limited continuity except for short distances, and which is more specifically designed 
for speeds, volume and applicability according to the context, the s tandards in these regulations, 
and other specific transportation plans and policies. 
 
Structure.  That which is built or constructed, an edifice, or building of any kind, or any piece of 
work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. 
 
Tiedown.  Any device designed to anchor a manufactured home or any other accessory building or 
structure to the ground. 
 
Page 13 of 31 
 
Temporary Use.  A use or activity that is intended to occupy the site on a non-continuous basis for 
more than 14 days. 
 
Tower.  Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one 
or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, including self -
supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or monopole towers. The term includes, but is not limited 
to, radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common -carrier towers, cellular 
telephone towers, alternative tower structures and any tower support. 
 
Tract.  A unit of land established by a plat or otherwise as permitted by law, designated for limited 
or no development as part of an approved plan for a legitimate public or community purpose and 
designated for public or common ownership and maintenance. 
 
Traffic-control Devices.  Signs, signals, markings, or other approved geometric designs in the 
roadway approved by the public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, 
warning, guiding, or calming traffic. 
 
Triple frontage lot.  See “Lot, triple frontage.” 
 
Unit Space.  A designated portion of a manufactured home park for the accommodation of one 
manufactured home. 
 
Urban Drainage and Flood Control District (UDFCD) .  The metropolitan Denver drainage 
organization. 
 
Utilities, Essential Services.  Those utility facilities that provide end user services to customers. 
They include local distribution and collection lines for gas, electricity, water, sewer, telephone or 
cable TV services throughout neighborhoods and connect with each customer. They cons ist of 
cables, wires or pipes with limited capacities and the associated hardware, such as transformers, 
relays and shut-off valves. They also consist of traffic-control boxes and traffic signal installations. 
 
Utility Facilities.  Any utility facility, whether or not regulated by the Wyoming Public Service 
Commission, not described as an essential service utility. 
 
Wall, Retaining.  A physical barrier necessary to prevent erosion and/or retain earth. 
 
Water Quality Capture Volume (WQCV) .  Represents runoff from frequent storm events such as 
the 80th percentile storm. The volume varies depending on local rainfall data. The WQCV is based 
on runoff from 0.6 inches of precipitation (approximately 0.5 inches of runoff). 
 
Water System.  A public or private system of providing potable water to a structure for domestic 
use. 
 
Woonerf.  A street designed for use by pedestrian and vehicular traffic, where the pedestrian has 
the right-of-way. 
 
WyDEQ.  The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality. 
Page 14 of 31 
 
 
Section 4.  That Section 1.4.4 of the UDC is amended to read as follows: 
 
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings 
 
This section contains general descriptions associated with the uses of land and buildings. It is 
organized according to categories of uses and specific types of uses within each category. These 
categories and types correspond to the Use Table in Article 5,  Zoning Regulations. Where a use 
appears to meet two or more descriptions or where a use is not described, the Director shall make 
a determination. If a use meets all of the characteristics of a use category and use type, or is so 
similar to a described us e type as to create no anticipated differential impact, the Director may 
interpret that the described use includes the additional use. In making this determination, the 
Director shall compare: (a) the intensity and scale of the use relative to the site; (b) the typical site 
and building designs associated with the use; (c) the functional or operational characteristics and 
the potential impacts of the use on adjacent property; and (d) the potential contribution of the use 
to the overall character of the district or districts in which the comparable use is allowed. All other 
uses which cannot be interpreted in this manner are different from the described uses, are not 
anticipated by these regulations, and may only be allowed by a zoning text amendment. 
 
a. Residential Uses . The Residential use category is for all types of dwelling units used for 
permanent residence, including a variety of lot types, building types, and unit types, that may 
vary in the kind and classes of buildings based on the character of the neighborhood. 
 
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse” / “Rowhouse”) .  A Residential use in a building 
designed with a series of attached principal dwelling units separated by a single common 
wall. Each unit is typically situated on its own fee simple lot where party walls are used, 
but buildings or grounds may be owned in co mmon. Each unit has the same orientation 
and front façade, and has its own private entrance to the exterior of the structure. 
 
Detached Dwelling.  A Residential use in a detached building designed as a single principal 
dwelling unit and situated on its own fee simple lot. 
 
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”).  A Residential use in a detached building designed as 
two principal dwelling units. It may be designed as a “paired house,” matching the 
appearance of a house, or it may be designed as a “flat-over-flat,” matching the appearance 
of a small apartment building. A duplex is situated on its own fee simple lot, but each unit 
of a side-by-side paired house may be platted on an individual lot if party walls are used. 
 
Cottage Lot.  A Residential use utilizing detached dwellings, semi -attached dwellings, or 
attached dwellings designed to face a common area (typically open space) with other 
shared facilities (such as shared public street access, shared parking, shared trash 
collection, etc.). Individual dwelling units may be on fee simple lots, a condominium, or 
on one larger ownership parcel. A cottage lot is also known as “bungalow court” or “cottage 
court”. Cottage lots are subject to the provisions of UDC Section 6.6.5. 
 
Group Housing.  A residential use, Group Housing is the provision of in -home, 24-hour, 
7-days a week custodial care for from 1 to 6 individuals living together as a single 
Page 15 of 31 
 
housekeeping unit in a single -family, detached dwelling unit. This maximum number 
excludes staff. This use does not include a household where custodial care is provided by 
a family member to from 1 to 6 persons in a single -family, detached dwelling unit. 
Custodial care includes the provision of in -home personal assistance, housekeeping 
service, supervision, and limited medical assistance to a resident or residents. Examples of 
Group Housing include, but are not limited to, homes for elders and disabled or m obility- 
impaired persons, homes for rehabilitation from drugs or alcohol addiction, or homes for 
formerly incarcerated persons. The Group Housing use is subject to the provisions of 
Section 5.7.5.d and e of the UDC. 
 
Dormitories.  A Residential use in a building that provides sleeping accommodations for a 
number of people. 
 
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”).  A Residential use in a building designed for more 
than two principal dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot. This building type 
includes a variety of variations based on the permitted building scale, including “stacked 
flats” (3-story/tri-plex), “six-plex” (paired stacked flats), or larger apartment buildings. 
 
Live/Work.  A primarily residential use in a building designed for two principal uses, where 
a portion is designed for residential dwelling use, and a portion is designed for a limited 
non-residential use to support the occupation or vocation of the resident of the dw elling 
unit. The non-residential portion is limited to the 1st story and less than 50% of the total 
floor area of the building. The building is situated on its own fee simple lot but may be 
attached or detached based on zoning district standards and context. 
 
Mixed-use Dwelling.  A Residential use in a building designed for a mix of uses with office 
or retail on the 1st story / street -front and residential uses on the upper stories where the 
dwelling units are not accessory to the non -residential uses. Mixed-use buildings may be 
either small - or large -scale, with larger scale buildings, depending on the context and 
zoning district standards, and typically being broken into multiple fee simple lots with party 
walls, but the dwelling units may be owned in fee simple, as condominiums, or apartments. 
 
Accessory Dwelling.  A separate dwelling unit that is associated with, incidental to, and 
subordinate to another dwelling unit as the principal use, and is located on the same lot as 
the principal dwelling (commonly referred to as “In -laws Quarters” or “Garage 
Apartment”). 
 
Urban Loft Building.  A residential use in a building designed for more than two principal 
dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot. This building type contemplates a 
taller multifamily building, often with parking structured or at grade with the building 
above, located in a walkable, mixed use context. 
 
Manufactured Home Park.  See “Manufactured Housing Park”. 
 
Manufactured housing parks.  An area of land under one fee ownership, where designated 
spaces for manufactured homesare rented for use as a principal dwelling unit, and which 
may provide associated facilities for common use. 
Page 16 of 31 
 
 
Campground.  A Service Use accommodating overnight stays in tents, cabins, or other non-
motorized shelters.  
 
Combined Manufactured Housing Park.  A Residential Use comprised of a manufactured 
housing park that, in addition to accommodating manufactured homes, has been licensed 
and has maintained a license, by the city/county health department to allow recreational 
vehicles to occupy independent s paces on the same site. Such facilities are recognized as 
nonconforming uses and may not be established in the City. 
 
Recreational Vehicle Park .  A Service Use providing accommodations for recreational 
vehicles, travel trailers, motor homes, dependent travel units, and park model recreational  
vehicles. 
 
b. Civic Uses . The Civic use category includes uses  serving a broad and general public and 
community interest to enhance daily cultural, social or recreation opportunities for area 
landowners and residents. This category is based on the need of different kinds and classes of 
buildings in close proximity with other uses, which can be integrated in to these areas with the 
appropriate level of civic design. The Civic use category may contain uses that are either public 
and accessible to all citizens; common and accessible by rights associated with ownership; o r 
private and accessible by membership or general association. 
 
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) .  A Civic use that conducts 
organized services, assemblies, or programs on a periodic or occasional basis, primarily 
for the convenience, entertainment, education, and social or spiritual welfare of nearby 
residents. Neighborhood Assemblies typically have bu ildings and supporting facilities 
designed for a capacity of no more than 350 people for any one event. Common examples 
include meeting halls, neighborhood association club houses, or smaller neighborhood 
churches. 
 
Community Assembly (350 -1000 maximum occupancy) .  A Civic use that conducts 
organized services, assemblies, or programs on a periodic or occasional basis, primarily 
for the convenience, entertainment, education, and social or spiritual welfare for citizens 
in the general vicinity. Community Assemblies typ ically have buildings and supporting 
facilities designed for a capacity of no more than 1000 people for any one event. Common 
examples include community centers, museum, or large churches. [ For larger ass emblies 
see Entertainment, Venue]. 
 
Cemeteries.  A Civic use where land is used for the burial of the deceased, both human and 
animals, and dedicated for internment purposes, including columbaria, crematoria, 
mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundary 
of such cemetery. 
 
Primary and Secondary Schools .  A Civic use where buildings and facilities are used for 
the education and instruction of K through 12 students. 
 
Page 17 of 31 
 
Educational Facilities .  A Civic use where buildings and facilities are used for the 
education and instruction of post -secondary students, non -traditional students, or 
continuing education for adult or general population. 
 
Community Athletic Field .  A noncommercial facility for active outdoor recreation and 
organized sports, including a facility which is an accessory use to a school, but excluding 
any facility with lighted fields or permanent buildings for refreshment stands, locker rooms 
or shower facilities. 
 
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium.  A facility for active outdoor recreation and organized 
sports which includes lighted fields, permanent grandstands, or permanent buildings for 
refreshment stands, locker rooms or shower facilities. 
 
c. Service Uses . The Service use category is for businesses engaged in the exchange of 
professional skills, advice, personal care or other resources, and the nature of the exchange 
generally requires frequent interactions with the clients, customers or patrons on the premises, 
and where lots or buildings may require access or exposure to the public-at-large. 
 
Service Business – Limited.  A Service use that primarily supports adjacent residential uses 
by providing daily services for the convenience of residents, and involving less than 3,000 
square feet of gross leasable area. Examples include post office, bank outlet, barber shop 
or beauty salon, tailor, or other similar services. 
 
Service Business – General.  A Service use that provides support for adjacent residential 
uses or businesses which may involve more than 3,000 square feet of gross leasable area. 
Examples include copy centers, large banks, or any other similar services that exceed the 
scale of Service Business – Limited. 
 
Assisted Living Facility / Nursing Home.  A Service use / institutional occupancy providing 
residential accommodations for 7 or more persons to meet the needs of the aging, semi -
dependent or dependent population in a residential environment, together with recreation 
and support services and facilities for the benefit of the residents and where any permanent 
on- site staff is accessory to the primarily residential use. On -site skilled nursing care or 
medical facilities may be provided. An Assisted Living Fac ility/Nursing Home use is 
subject to the provisions of Section 5.7.5 of the UDC. An Assisted Living facility/Nursing 
Home use, pursuant to this definition, does not include a Group Housing use or site. An 
Assisted Living Facility/Nursing Home operation may take place within a residential or a 
non-residential structure. 
 
Animal Care, Kennel.  A Service use where domestic animals are boarded, bred or sold as 
a primary business. Animal Care, Hospital / Clinic. A Service use where animals are 
admitted for examination, treatment, or health care by a doctor of veterinary medicine, 
which may include kennels, runs or other accessory accommodations. 
 
Family Child Care Home (FCCH).  A Service use where preschool care and education is 
provided for up to 10 children within the owner’s primary residence. The owner’s infants, 
toddler and/or children ages three (3) to five (5) shall count toward the capacity. 
Page 18 of 31 
 
 
Family Child Care Center (FCCC).  A Service use where preschool care and education is 
provided for up to 15 children within the owner’s primary residence. The owner’s infants, 
toddler and/or children ages three (3) to five (5) shall count toward the capacity. 
 
Child Care Center (CCC).  A Service use where preschool care and education is provided 
for children on a regular basis not located in any person’s residence. 
 
Emergency Shelter.  A facility, which provides shelter or overnight accommodations and 
incidental support services for persons experiencing homelessness and/ or families on a 
short-term basis. 
 
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility .  A Service use where facilities for indoor 
sports, entertainment, or similar recreation opportunities for participants and spectators are 
offered. Examples of uses include bowling alleys, pool halls, roller skating rinks, 
swimming pools, movie theaters, vi deo or similar gaming venues, racquetball courts, or 
fitness clubs. 
 
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility .  A Service use where facilities for outdoor 
sports, entertainment, or similar recreation opportunities for participants and spectators are 
offered. Examples include racetracks, driving ranges, music performance venues, or other 
outdoor entertainment venues. 
 
Entertainment, Venue.  A Service use where music concerts, floor shows or other forms of 
entertainment, performances or presentations by persons are provided indoors for guests or 
the general public, which may include accessory dining, bar, and similar refreshment 
services. Exam ples include concert halls, theatrical performance art centers, dinner 
theaters, other food or beverage -serving establishments providing live entertainment 
venues, banquet halls, or auditoriums. 
 
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other.  A Service use primarily engaged 
in the operation of indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement and recreation services not 
elsewhere classified, such as off -track betting, indoor or outdoor shooting range, 
amusement parks, or similar sports or recreation venues. 
 
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast .  A Service use where up to six guest rooms are rented, 
generally for short -term occupancy for sleeping, together with limited facilities for the 
accommodations of guests in a home-like atmosphere. 
 
Lodging, Hotel or Motel .  A Service use where six or more guest rooms are rented, 
generally for short- term occupancy for sleeping, together with incidental meeting rooms, 
restaurants and recreation facilities for the primary benefit of the guests. 
 
Medical Care, Clinic .  A Service use where physicians, dentists, or other health care 
professionals are associated for the purpose of carrying on their professions. A health clinic 
may include a dental or medical laboratory, after hours emergency care, but it may not 
include in-patient care or operating rooms for major surgery. 
Page 19 of 31 
 
 
Medical Care, Office .  A Service use where physicians, dentists, or other health care 
professionals carrying on their professions. A medical office may include a dental or 
medical laboratory, but may not include in -patient care or operating rooms for major 
surgery and may not be open for after-hours emergency care. 
 
Medical Care, Hospital.  A Service use providing health services, primarily for inpatients, 
and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral part of the 
institution such related facilities as laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, 
central service facilities and staff offices. 
 
Mini Storage.  A Service use where a building or group of buildings in a controlled access 
and fenced compound that contains varying sizes(s) of individual, compartmentalized and 
controlled-access stalls or lockers for the storage of a customer’s goods or wares. Mini 
Storage may include individual units accessed from inside of a building offered for rent or 
lease for the storage of personal property. It may also include parking areas for the storage 
of vehicles, trailers, recreational vehicles, boats, snow mobiles and other similar items as 
an accessory use. Outdoor storage, or the storage of junk, explosives, or flammable 
materials and other noxious or dangerous materials are specifically prohibited. 
 
Storage, Yard.  A Service use where exterior yards are leased for the outdoor storage of 
large-item personal property such as boats or recreational vehicles. 
 
d. Employment Uses. The Employment use category is for businesses engaged in administrative, 
clerical, and professional operations and support, where products or services are of the nature 
that generally, when compared to Retail Use Types, do not require daily on -premise 
interactions with the clients, customers or patrons, and where lots and buildings are not 
primarily designed to maximize exposure to the public-at-large. 
 
Home Occupation.  A business which is carried on entirely within a legal or legal non -
conforming dwelling or allowed accessory building, and which is clearly incidental and 
secondary to the use of the premises as a dwelling. 
 
Office - Limited.  An Employment use which is not an accessory to another use, but limited 
individual units of gross leasable area are less than 3,500 square feet, and where each owner 
or tenant typically employs less than 20 employees on premises. Examples include small -
scale professional service offices such as accountants, architects, insurance, law, real 
estate, or other similar businesses which can operate within the unit square footage and 
employee limits of this category. 
 
Office - General.  An Employment use where individual units of gross leasable area are 
between 3,500 and 20,000 square feet, and where each owner or tenant typically employs 
between 20 and 100 employees on premises. Examples include large professional service 
offices such as  accountants, architects, insurance, law, real estate, or other similar 
businesses which exceed the Office - Limited category, or other moderate size business or 
corporate employment operations. 
 
Page 20 of 31 
 
Major Office or Office Complex .  An Employment use where individual units of gross 
leasable area may be more than 20,000 square feet in a single building or group of 
buildings, and each owner or tenant may typically employ more than 100 employees on 
premises. Examples include major professional service firms or large corporate offices. 
 
e. Commercial Uses. The Commercial use category is for businesses engaged in the exchange 
of merchandise for general consumers, and nature of the exchange generally requires frequent 
interactions with the clients, customers or patrons on the premises, where lots or buildings are 
primarily designed for exposure to the public-at-large. 
 
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) .  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the 
small-scale sale of household merchandise and general consumer products and involving 
less than 2,000 square feet of gross leasable area. Convenience Retail / Corner Store uses 
are characterized by target market areas of less than 1/4 mile radius for most of its on -
premise sales or are associated accessory to an employment or service business. 
 
Neighborhood Retail (<5K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the small-scale sale 
of household merchandise and general consumer products and involving less than 5,000 
square feet of gross leasable area. Neighborhood retail uses are characterized by a target 
market area of less than ½ mile radius for most of its on premise sales. 
 
General Retail (5K - 25K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty merchandise, and consumer products and involving between 5,000 
and 25,000 square feet of gross leasable area. General Retail uses are characterized by a 
target market area of less than 1 mile radius for most of its on-premise sales. 
 
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the sale of 
household merchandise, specialty merchandise or general consumer products and 
involving between 25,000 and 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area. Large - scale 
Retail uses are characterized by a target market area that may be greater than 1 mile radius 
for the on- premise component of its sales. 
 
Warehouse Retail (> 100K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty products, general consumer products, or wholesale products and 
involving greater than 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area. Warehouse Retail uses 
are characterized by a target market area that may be more than 1 mile radius for most of 
its sales. 
 
Grocery Store (<45K).  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of a broad range of 
food products and limited household products for consumption off premises, although 
some limited areas may be dedicated to the on -premise sale and consumption of food. A 
grocery store involves  less than 45,000 square feet of gross leasable area and is 
characterized by a target market of less than 1-mile radius. 
 
Supermarket (> 45K) .  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of a broad range of 
food and household products for consumption off premises, although some limited areas 
may be dedicated to the on- premise sale and consumption of food. A supermarket typically 
Page 21 of 31 
 
involves more than 45,000 square feet of gross leasable area and is characterized by a target 
market of greater than 1-mile radius. 
 
Outdoor Sales, Limited.  The limited display of merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior 
private area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted Commercial use. This display 
is further limited by the following: (1) it only occurs during regular business hours and is 
brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent to less than 10% of the entire merchandise area of 
the Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales or events lasting no longer than 
one-week at a time with at least 4 weeks between consecutive events. 
 
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal.  The limited display of merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior 
private area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
 
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the following: (1) it only occurs during 
regular business hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent to less than 20% of 
the entire merchandise area of the Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sal es 
or events lasting no longer than one month at a time with at least 2 months between 
consecutive events. 
 
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area .  The display of merchandise on a sidewalk or an 
exterior private area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted Commercial use that 
does not meet the limitations of Limited or Seasonal Outdoor Sales, and which may require 
areas to be designed and dedicated for display when part of the permanent operations of an 
interior retail business. Examples include lumber yards and garden centers. 
 
Outdoor Sales .  The display and sale of merchandise where the primary business is 
generated by merchandise displayed permanently and year round on an exterior portion of 
the site. Examples include automobile sales and implement sales. 
 
Bars.  A Commercial use primarily engaged in serving alcoholic beverages for 
consumption on-premises. Any food or entertainment services are generally secondary or 
accessory to the business. 
 
Liquor Store.  A Commercial use engaged primarily in the retail sale of alcoholic beverages 
for consumption off -premises. The sale of food or accessory beverage supplies are 
generally secondary or accessory to the business. 
 
Automobile Service Repair .  A Commercial use engaged in the repair, maintenance, 
condition, detailing, or cleaning of motor vehicles and including the accessory sales of 
lubricants, parts, or accessories. Services also include any modification, assembly or 
painting of motor vehicles and repair of internal combustion engines. 
 
Automobile Service Station – Limited.  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, 
and may include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair services, or maintenance 
services. This use is limited to no more than 2 fuel pump islands and no more than 8 fueling 
stations. 
 
Page 22 of 31 
 
Automobile Service Station – General.  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of 
fuel, and may include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair services, or 
maintenance services, or accessory Convenience Retail. This use is limited to no more than 
4 fuel pump islands and no more than 16 fueling stations. 
 
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale.  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of 
fuel, and may include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair services, or 
maintenance services, or accessory Convenience Retail. This use may have more than 4 
fuel pump islands and more than 16 fueling stations. 
 
Food Service – Limited (< 2K).  Any Commercial use engaged in the preparation and retail 
sale of food and beverages for consumption on -site and including less than 2,000 square 
feet of seating area. 
 
Food Service – General (2K – 4K).  Any Commercial use engaged in the preparation and 
retail sale of food and beverages for consumption on-site and including between 2,000 and 
4,000 square feet of seating area. 
 
Food Service – Large-scale (> 4k).  Any Commercial use engaged in the preparation and 
retail sale of food and beverages for consumption on site and including more than 4,000 
square feet of seating area. 
 
f. Industrial Use Category . The Industrial use category is for businesses engaged in 
manufacturing, fabrication, warehousing, processing, wholesale or disposal of goods, products 
and component parts, and services related to these businesses. These uses typically belong in 
a special district due to their inability to blend with the uses from other use categories, except 
when occurring at the smallest scale. 
 
Data Center.  A use consisting of buildings or structures specifically designed or modified 
to house networked computers and data and transaction processing equipment and related 
infrastructure support equipment, including power and cooling equipment. A data center 
may be used to provide data and transaction processing services, outsource information 
technology services and/or computer equipment colocation services. A data center may 
also include buildings or structures that support the operation of the dat a center including 
retrofit buildings, warehousing for logistics, independent network buildings, buildings for 
support staff, and emergency generators. A Data Center shall not include activities which 
consistently produce noise discernable at the property line. Should a Data Center produce 
noise discernable at the property line, it shall be classified as an Industrial use. 
 
Limited Industrial.  An Industrial use where small -scale activities produce no byproducts 
such as smoke, odor, dust or noise discernable from the outside of the building in which it 
is located. Individual facilities typically occupy less than 10,000 square feet of gross 
leasable area and distribution and deliveries are commonly made by general consumer 
delivery services, requiring no significant truck access. A retail, showroom, or service 
component is often associated with the use. Examples include artist studios, metal and 
wood shops, arts and crafts manufacturing, small appliance or machine repairs, or other 
small-scale assembly of finished parts or products from previously prepared materials. 
Page 23 of 31 
 
 
Moderate Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or 
noise are not discernable from outside of the building in which it is located. Distribution 
and deliveries can occur from general consumer delivery services or limited commercial 
truck access. Examples include research labs or facilities, small electronics or computer 
assembly and manufacturing, furniture assembly. 
 
General Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or noise 
are not discernable from beyond the property boundary. Operations may require 
commercial vehicle access for distribution and deliveries. Examples include non -animal 
food processing, comm ercial warehouses or wholesale distribution centers or energy 
industry services. 
 
Industrial.  An Industrial use capable of producing significant byproducts discernable from 
outside the building and property including noise, odors, or other potentially offensive 
materials. Operations may require substantial commercial vehicle access for distribution  
and deliveries. Examples include food -processing involving animals (large -scale), metal 
or chemical manufacturing, and data centers which consistently produce noise discernable 
at the property line. 
 
Limited Outdoor Storage.  A use where less than 50% of the lot is used to store equipment 
and other materials customarily used in the operations associated with the principal use of 
the property in an unenclosed area. 
 
Outdoor Storage.  A use not classified as Limited Outdoor Storage where property is used 
to store equipment, vehicles, or other materials in an unenclosed area. 
 
Impoundment Yards .  An industrial use where a government agency establishes and 
operates a fenced yard or enclosed area where storage of vehicles seized by, and in the 
custody of, the government agency, are stored for retrieval by the vehicle owner or are sold 
by proper means by the agency. 
 
Salvage Yards.  An Industrial use where materials are extracted from unusable equipment, 
structures, or vehicles and stored for future use or resale. 
 
Junk Yards.  An Industrial use where waste or used material are bought, sold, exchanged, 
stored or processed for disposal. 
 
Pet Crematory.  An Industrial use where land and buildings are used for the preparation 
and processing of deceased domestic animals. 
 
Air Cargo Terminals.  An Industrial use where land and buildings are used for the storage 
of airplanes, airplane cargo or other facilities associated with air transportation or air 
shipping. 
 
Page 24 of 31 
 
Aircraft Sales, Repair, Service, Storage .  An Industrial use where land and buildings are 
used for keeping inventory related to aircraft sales or for the storage and maintenance of 
aircraft. 
 
Railroad Yards and Maintenance Buildings.  An Industrial use where land and buildings 
are used for the storage of rail cars, rail cargo or other facilities associated with rail 
transportation or rail shipping. 
 
g. Public Service Uses. The Public Service use category is for businesses or government entities 
engaged providing technical and operational services that serve the general public and 
community interest to enhance general health, safety, welfare and convenience for landowners 
and residents, and that serve interests beyond the specific site or facility. This category is based 
on the need of different kinds and classes of buildings in close proximity with other uses, which 
can be buffered from the adjacent areas they serve with the appropriate site design, or 
alternatively which can be located in special purpose districts and still serve the public interest. 
 
Commercial or Public Parking Facility .  A Public Service use where land and buildings 
are used for hourly or daily parking of passenger vehicles that serves other uses, sites and 
buildings in the vicinity. The parking services may be owned by the government or owned 
and operated as a business. 
 
Government Facility.  A facility or area of land controlled and/or operated by a government 
entity to aid in providing a service to the citizens under the jurisdiction of that entity. 
 
Military.  A Public Service use where land and buildings are used for operations of the 
United States Armed Forces. 
 
Recycling Services.  A Public Service use where land and buildings are used for the public 
drop-off, storage, and packaging of recyclable materials. Processing may occur on site, or 
materials may be shipped to other industrial sites for further processing. 
 
Transportation Facilities .  A Public Service use engaged in the business of offering 
transportation services to the public, such as airport terminals, bus stations, train stations, 
taxi stations, parking garages, bicycle depots or similar facilities for common storage 
personal vehicles or common boarding of public vehicles. 
 
Utility Stations.  A Public Service use where land is used for the concentrated location of 
fixed equipment necessary to serve adjacent areas with utility service, including other 
accessory buildings and facilities essential to the operation of the equipment. 
 
h. Agriculture Uses. The Agriculture use category is for uses that are commonly associated with 
an agrarian or rustic lifestyle, and which demand little or no public infrastructure or services. 
 
General Agriculture.  The production of grain, animals, food and fiber; the science and art 
of farming and ranching; and the work of cultivating the soil, producing crops and raising 
livestock. General Agriculture specifically excludes concentrated feeding operations where 
Page 25 of 31 
 
swine are confined, fed and maintained for 45 consecutive days or more in any 12 -month 
period. 
 
Limited Agriculture.  The production of grain, animals, food and fiber on a small scale 
where any impacts on potential adjacent property from storage, operations, and equipment 
can be internalized into the site or buffered from abutting areas, typically not occurring on 
lots or parcels larger than 10 acres. 
 
Agricultural Equipment and Supply.  An Agriculture use where the land and buildings are 
used for retail sales of equipment and materials used for agricultural-related land uses, and 
accessory servicing of agriculture equipment. 
 
Agriculture Product Sales / Farmers Market.  An Agriculture use where land and buildings 
are used for the retail sale of agricultural products and operated without any additional or 
permanent site facilities than are otherwise associated with agriculture use. Road side 
stands, truck sales, or barn sa les are examples of such uses, however the intensity and 
frequency of such sales shall be so that no additional parking, roads, structures, 
warehouses, or other storage facilities are necessary on the site. 
 
Arenas and Show Barns .  An Agriculture use where the land and buildings are used for 
show or sale of livestock, and where the public can attend these and other related activities. 
 
Commercial Stables .  An Agriculture use where land and buildings are used for the 
business of boarding horses, donkeys, mules, burros, llamas or other similar equine 
animals. 
 
Nurseries, Landscaping.  An Agriculture use to grow plants of any kind for transplanting 
to another location or for sale as live plants rather than as crops, including the sale of related 
equipment and supplies. 
 
Section 5.  That Section 5.1.4 of the UDC is amended to read as shown in Attachment A 
which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Section 6.  That Section 5.7.10 of the UDC is amended to read as follows: 
 
5.7.10 Recreational Vehicle Parks and Campgrounds 
 
In districts where recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds are allowed, they shall meet the 
following standards in addition to all other lot and building standards for the district. 
 
a. All property lines and street frontages shall have a level 2 landscape buffer as specified in UDC 
6.3.5.b. 
 
b. Accessory uses such as laundry buildings, service retail stores, manager's offices, storage 
buildings, caretaker facilities, cabins, and other uses common with recreational vehicle parks 
and campgrounds shall be permitted. 
 
Page 26 of 31 
 
c. A network of vehicular accessways shall be provided and individual sites shall not have direct 
access to a public street. All accessways shall be paved with either asphalt, concrete, permeable 
pavers, or a combination thereof. Accessways shall not encroach  into a required landscape 
buffer, except as necessary to provide access to the site. 
 
d. A developed outdoor recreational area(s) shall be provided and shall be at least 10% of the 
gross development area or 4,500 square feet, whichever is greater. Outdoor recreational spaces 
shall be comprised of playgrounds, picnic areas, trails, sports facilities, and similar amenities. 
 
e. One fenced pet area(s) per acre of developed site shall be provided and shall be at least 700 
square feet in area. 
 
f. At least one (1) canopy tree within fifteen (15) feet of each space shall be provided. 
 
g. Designated areas for tents or cabins shall provide a minimum campsite area of five hundred 
(500) square feet per tent or cabin. Campsite areas may be consolidated when tents or cabins 
are clustered, provided that the required square footage per unit is mai ntained, and the area is 
exclusive of drive aisles, parking spaces, or common access ways. 
 
h. No recreational vehicle occupying any recreational vehicle space shall have permanent 
additions of any kind. Skirting of recreational vehicles is permissible provided such skirting 
shall not attach the recreational vehicles permanently to the ground. 
 
i. Each recreational vehicle space shall have water and sewer service available for connection at 
the individual recreational vehicle site. 
 
j. No recreational vehicle space shall be occupied by a recreational vehicle classified as a 
nuisance pursuant to section 8.60.080 of municipal code. 
 
k. Spaces occupied for more than one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days shall: 
1. Be permitted only within designated long-term stay areas of the recreational vehicle park, 
2. Include one detached individual storage structure per space, not exceeding 160 square feet 
in floor area. All storage structures shall be approved in conjunction with a site plan and 
designed with consistent materials, colors, and architectural elements to ensure a unified 
appearance 
3. Only be occupied by units that:  
i. Are skirted with materials designed for weather protection and visual uniformity, 
ii. Are self-contained units, 
iii. Are manufactured within the last 20 years, 
iv. Display a valid Recreation Vehicle Industry Association (RVIA) certification seal 
verifying compliance with the applicable ANSI or HUD recreational vehicle 
construction standards in effect at the time of manufacture, 
v. Do not be occupied by a recreational vehicle classified as a nuisance pursuant to section 
8.60.080 of municipal code, and 
vi. Do not have permanent additions, such as room extensions, porches, or attached 
garages or carports 
 
Page 27 of 31 
 
l. Recreational vehicle parks not meeting the definition of temporary use per this Code shall 
comply with the development standards of this section. 
 
Section 7.  That Section 5.8.2 of the UDC is amended to read as follows: 
 
5.8.2 Manufactured Homes and Parks 
 
a. Generally.  Housing that meets the definition of a manufactured home shall be permitted in 
any residential district provided it meets the specific standards of this section, the standards for 
that district and all other applicable construction standards. 
 
b. General Standards.  Manufactured housing parks shall be permitted only as a use requiring 
public hearing in any residential district or as a planned unit development, and shall meet all 
other applicable requirements of the zoning district.  
1. Any property to be used as a manufactured housing park shall comply with the minimum 
standards governing the parks as adopted and maintained by the Department of Public 
Health for the state of Wyoming and only after certification of compliance and a permit  
have been duly issued. 
2. Any property to be developed as a manufactured housing park shall be platted as required 
by the subdivision regulations for the City.  
3. Each house placed in a park or portion of a park developed after the adoption of this code 
shall have a data plate affixed to it.  
4. Skirting. All houses shall be skirted with a rigid material. Skirting shall be in place within 
30 days after the house is set on the space. Skirting shall provide entry access.  
5. Utilities. All spaces in the park shall be provided with utilities meeting standards specified 
by City, board of public utilities and state regulations and inspected for compliance with 
those regulations. Each house shall be properly connected to those utilities.  
6. Common Storage Areas. Areas within the park for the storage of boats, trailers, campers 
and recreational vehicles shall be provided. They shall be screened from adjacent 
residential properties.  
7. Dimensional Standards. All parks and spaces within parks shall meet the following 
dimensional standards. Each unit space within the park shall have its boundaries clearly 
delineated. Accessory structures excluding carports, or any other structure that is o pen on 
two or more sides, shall meet these standards. 
Page 28 of 31 
 
 
c. Roadway Standards .  Park roadways shall be paved and meet the following dimensional 
standards:  
 
d. Walkways, lighting and parking standards.  
1. Walkways. All houses shall be connected to the adjacent park roadway via a hard-surfaced 
walkway. The vehicle parking pad may be used as a portion of this walkway. Hard-surfaced 
walkways shall be provided within the park roadway as follows:  
(a) Minor park roadways (roadways serving 25 units or less) shall have a walkway on at 
least one side of the park roadway.  
(b) Major park roadways (roadways serving more than 25 units) shall have a walkway on 
both sides of the park roadway. 

Page 29 of 31 
 
2. Lighting. All park roadways and walkways shall be adequately lit to provide for the safety 
of park residents.  
3. Parking. Two off-street parking stalls shall be provided per unit space. 
e. Recreation Space. For the purposes of this section, “recreation space” is defined as an area 
of land that is available to park residents for recreational activities. It does not include 
roadways, storage areas or yards. For parks with more than 25 spaces, or additions to those 
parks, recreation space shall be provided as follows:  
 
 
f. Existing Manufactured Home and Manufactured Home Parks.  An existing house or park 
that does not meet the definition of a manufactured home or park as outlined in this Title shall 
be deemed to be a nonconforming use without regard to the standards of the district in which 
it is located. The nonconforming use may  be continued provided that the continued use does 
not constitute a hazard to health and is not a public nuisance. The nonconforming use shall not 
be extended, enlarged, or changed unless the entire home or park is brought into compliance 
with current regulations for manufactured homes or new  manufactured home parks. For a 
manufactured home park, the procedures shall be the same as those for establishing a 
manufactured home park in that district. In addition to the information and application for the 
district, the request shall also contain the following information:   
1. A draft written agreement from the applicant to insure that the improvements to the new 
area and the improvements to the existing area will be provided; 
2. A specific time schedule for all the improvements;  
3. A specific list of exceptions to the standards for new parks that cannot or will not be met 
when all improvements specified in the agreement are provided. Expansion of the park and 
the installation of improvements will not be initiated until the agreement and the other 
requirements of the district have been approved. 
 
g. Travel Trailers and Recreational Vehicles. Travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall not 
be installed in manufactured housing parks or subdivisions as a dwelling unit. The use of travel 
trailers and recreational vehicles shall be allowed only in recreational vehicle parks, 
campgrounds, or combined manufactured housing parks, all licensed by the city/county health 
department. 
 
h. Manufactured Homes on Single Platted Properties or Tracts . Manufactured homes are 
permitted on any platted residential property or tract subject to the provisions of this section. 
This section does not apply to homes placed in manufactured home parks. Homes to be placed 
on a property or tract shall meet the following requirements: 
1. The home shall be sited in such a fashion that it meets all the requirements of the district 
in which it is located. The home shall have the delivery system removed. 

Page 30 of 31 
 
2. The home shall be installed on a permanent foundation constructed of masonry, concrete 
or other approved material and shall comply with the building code. The foundation system 
shall be designed and constructed to sustain, within the stress limitations spe cified in the 
building code, all loads specified in the building code. The installation instructions as 
provided by the manufacturer of the manufactured home shall be used to determine 
permissible points of support for vertical loads and points of attachme nt for anchorage 
systems used to resist horizontal and uplift forces. The foundation system design shall be 
stamped and signed by a Wyoming licensed professional engineer. 
3. The house shall be built to the current HUD code for this zone as referenced in the federal 
manufactured housing construction and safety standards. Skirting and permanent perimeter 
enclosures shall be installed. Skirting shall be of material suitable for exterior exposure and 
contact with the ground. Permanent perimeter enclosures shall be constructed of materials 
as required by the building code for regular foundation construction. Skirting shall be 
installed in accordance with the skirting manufacturer’s installation instructions. Skirting 
shall be adequately secured to assure stability, to minimize vibration and susceptibility to 
wind damage, and to compensate for possible frost heave. 
4. Where retaining walls are used as a permanent perimeter enclosure, they shall resist the 
lateral displacements of soil or other materials and shall conform to the building code as 
specified for foundation walls. Retaining walls and foundation walls shall b e constructed 
of approved treated wood, concrete, masonry or other approved materials or combination 
of materials as for foundations as specified in the building code. Siding materials shall 
extend below the top of the exterior of the retaining or foundation wall or the joint between 
siding and enclosure wall shall be flashed in accordance with the building code. 
5. The structure shall have a pitched roof, with a slope of not less than a nominal three inch 
vertical rise for each twelve (12) inches of horizontal run. Roof material shall consist of 
nonreflective material customarily used for conventional dwellings inclu ding but not 
limited to fiberglass shingles, composition shingles or tile material. Roof materials shall 
not include flat or corrugated sheet metal, except for manufactured metal roof panels. 
6. The structure shall have a roof overhang of not less than eight inches measured from the 
vertical side of the home. 
7. The structure shall have siding material consisting of wood or wood products, stucco, brick, 
rock, horizontal lap steel or aluminum or horizontal lap vinyl.  
8. The structure shall be a minimum of 24’ along the widest part of the structure’s shortest 
axis. 
9. The structure shall be constructed in accordance with the most recent version of the HUD 
code. However, no home will be permitted under this section if it was built prior to the year 
2000. 
 
Section 8.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of the remainin g 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
Page 31 of 31 
 
Section 9.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
 
 
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 4
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
P = Use permitted by right A = use per mitted after administrative review  C = U se permitted after conditional discretionary review  
(blank = prohibited use)
tAble 5-1:  Zoning district uses
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Residential Uses
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Detached Dwelling P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”) P P P P P P P P P P
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse”) P P P P P P P P
Cottage Lots C C C C P P P P P P
Group Housing C C C C C C C C C C C C C C P
Dormitories C A P P P P
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”) C P
P/C P C
P/C P P P
Live/Work C P C A P P P P P P C P
Mixed-use Dwelling P P P P P P C P
Accessory Dwelling A A A A A A A A A A A A P
Urban Loft Building C P C C C P P
Manufactured housing parks C C C C P
Civic Uses
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) C C C C C C A A A A A P C C A A A C P
Community Assembly (350  - 1000  maximum occupancy) A A P C C A A A C P
Cemeteries A A A P C C A A A P
Primary and secondary schools C C C C C C C C C A A P P A A A C P
Educational facilities P P P A A C P
Community Athletic Field C C C C C C A A P A A A P P
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium C C C C C P P
Service Uses
Service Business - Limited P P P A P P P P
Service Business - General C P P C C P P
Assisted Living / Nursing Home C C C C C A C C C C C P P P P P
Animal Care - Kennel P C P P P P
Animal Care – Hospital / Clinic C C C P C C P
Family Child Care Home (FCCH) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Family Child Care Center (FCCC) A A A A A A A A A P P P A P P P
Child Care Center (CCC) A C A C C C C C C P P P C P P P P
Emergency Shelter P C
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C P P P A C P P P P                               
Attachment A: Page 1 of 3
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 5
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  Zoning district uses
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Services Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C C C C C A C C A C C C P P
Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy) C C C A A C A C C P P
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation—Other C C C C P C C C C C C P
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast P A A C C C C A P P P P P
Lodging, Hotel / Motel P P P P P P
Campground C C C P C P
Recreational Vehical Park C C C P C P
Medical Care, Clinic and Office P P P C P P P P
Medical Care, Hospital P P P P
Mini Storage C C P C P P C C P
Storage, Yard C P C P
Employment Uses P
Home occupations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Office – Limited (<3,500) C A C A P P P P P P P P P P
Office – general (3,500 – 20K) C C P P P P A P P P P
Office – Major Office Complex (>20K) P P P P P P P P
Commercial Uses
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) P P P P A P P P P
Neighborhood Retail (2K - 5K) P P P P A P P P P
General Retail (5K -  25K) P P P P A P P
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K) P P P P C P P
Warehouse Retail (> 100K) P P P P P P
Grocery Store <45K P P P P P P P P
Supermarket  > 45K P P P P C P P
Outdoor Sales, Limited A P A A A A C P
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales C C C C C P
Bars and liquor stores C C P A C C P P
Automobile Service Repair C P C P P C C P P
Automobile Service Station - Limited C P C P P C C P P P
Automobile Service Station - General P C P P C P P
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale C C P P P
Attachment A: Page 2 of 3
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 6
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  Zoning district uses
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Commercial Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Food Service – Limited (under 2K) P P P P P P P P P
Food Service – General (2K – 4K) C P P P P P P P
Food Service – Large-scale (over 4k) P P P P P P
Industrial Uses
Data Center C C C P P C P P
Limited Industrial A A P P P P A P P P P
Moderate Industrial C P P C P P P
General Industrial C P P C
Industrial C C C
Limited Outdoor Storage P P C A P C
Outdoor Storage C P C C
Impoundment Yards P P C C C
Salvage yards C C C
Junk yards C C
Air cargo terminals P C
Aircraft sales, repair, service, storage and relating uses P C
Railroad yards and maintenance buildings P P P C
Public Service Uses
Commercial and Public Parking Facility P P P P P P
Government Facility P P P P P P P P P P P P
Military P P
Recycling Services C P P C C C P
Transportation facilities C P P P P P P
Utility Stations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A P A P
Agriculture Uses
General Agriculture P P P
Limited Agriculture P P P P
Agricultural equipment or product sales C P
Commercial stables, arenas, and show barns C C P
Nurseries, landscaping P P C P P C P
Attachment A: Page 3 of 3
ORDINANCE NO. ________ 
 
ENTITLED: “AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 5.1.4, 5.7.10 AND 
5.8.2 OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO DEFINE 
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS AND CAMPGROUNDS, 
DESIGNATE ZONE DISTRICTS FOR THEIR OPERATION, CREATE 
SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS 
CAMPGROUNDS, AND REVISE MANUFACTURED HOME AND PARKS 
REGULATIONS AS NECESSARY.” 
 
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, 
WYOMING: 
 
Section 1.  That the Governing Body of the City of Cheyenne finds that the text amendment 
that is the subject of this ordinance meets the criteria specified in Section 2.4.1.d of the Cheyenne 
Unified Development Code (UDC). 
 
Section 2 .  That on October 6, 2025, the Cheyenne Planning Commission conducted a 
public hearing, reviewed the proposed text amendment, and recommended approval of said text 
amendment with modifications. 
 
Section 3.  That Section 1.4.3 of the UDC is amended to read as follows: 
 
1.4.3 Defined Terms 
 
All words and phrases shall have their ordinary and customary meanings unless the context of the 
word or phrase indicates otherwise. The following terms shall have the meaning given below, 
unless the context of the use of the term clearly indicates otherwise based on the Purposes, Intent, 
Design Objective or other guidance associated with its use in a particular section. 
 
Abutting.  A description of proximity where two elements share a common boundary. 
 
Access Point.  A driveway, internal access street or similar vehicular entrance or exit to the interior 
of a block, lot or parcel from a street. 
 
Accessory Use.  A subordinate use, clearly incidental and related to the principal use and located 
on the same property. 
 
Activity Center.  Places where economic and social activity are focused. In addition, where the 
code specifically references PlanCheyenne or references specific types of activity centers 
described in PlanCheyenne the additional guidance in the Plan may be used to determine the 
context or applicability of a particular standard. 
 
Adjacent.  A description of the proximity of two elements which includes abutting and any 
surrounding vicinity where the impacts described could be reasonably assumed to extend. 
 
Page 2 of 31 
 
Alley.  A low capacity, low speed and minor street or access way typically located on the rear or 
side of properties and used for access to parking, service areas, accessory buildings or easements 
and not intended for through traffic. 
 
Antenna.  Any exterior transmitting or receiving communication device mounted on a tower, 
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture electromagnetic waves, 
digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies (excluding radar signals), wi reless 
telecommunications signals or other communication signals. 
 
Appeal.  A written request for a review of any final action or decision allowed by the provisions 
of this Title. 
 
Applicant.  Any person(s), firm, corporation or entity requesting permission or desiring to 
officially apply for any action regulated by this Title. 
 
Average Daily Traffic (ADT).  The total volume of vehicles during a given time period  (in whole 
days greater than one day and less than one year) divided by the number of days in that time period. 
 
Awning.  A shelter constructed of non -rigid materials along windows and sidewalks at the first 
story of a building, and mounted on a supporting framework projecting from and supported by the 
exterior wall of a building. 
 
Base Flood Elevation.  The elevation of the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or 
exceeded in any given year. 
 
Berm.  A mound of earth designed to provide a screen. 
 
Best Management Practice.  A technique, process, activity, or structure used to reduce pollutant 
discharges in stormwater. BMPs include source control practices (non -structural BMPs) and 
engineered structures designed to treat runoff. BMPs are most effective when used in combination 
and selected and designed based on site-specific characteristics. 
 
Bicycle Route.  A portion of a system of bikeways designated by appropriate route markers which 
can be a bicycle trail or bikeway. 
 
Bicycle Trail.  A trail or path separated from motor vehicles and designated exclusively for bicycles 
or shared by bicycles and pedestrians.  
 
Bikeway.  A street designed to incorporate bicycle travel through either shared vehicle / bicycle 
lanes or designated bicycle lanes. 
 
Billboard.  A sign structure advertising an establishment, a message, merchandise, service or 
entertainment which is not located, sold, produced, manufactured or furnished at the property on 
which the sign is located. Billboard includes Digital Billboard as defined in this code. 
 
Blinking.  A form of flashing where the pattern of sudden illumination changes occurs with more 
than 2 on-off cycles per second. 
Page 3 of 31 
 
 
Block.  An area of land that is entirely bounded by streets or other boundary  permitted by these 
regulations where streets are not appropriate based on the context. 
 
Block Frontage.  The side or sides of a block that the majority of the lots or tracts face. 
 
BMP Maintenance.  Routinely scheduled activities, as well as non -routine repairs that may be 
required after large storms, or as a result of other unforeseen problems, as necessary to ensure 
proper BMP function. 
 
Building.  Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy. 
 
Building, Accessory.  A detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental and 
related to that of the principal building or use of the land, and which is located on the same property 
as that of the principal structure or use. 
 
Building, Attached .  A building having one or more party walls in common with an adjacent 
building. 
 
Building, Detached.  A building having no common wall or structural attachment with another 
building. 
 
Building, Existing.  A building erected prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified in this Title, 
or prior to the effective date of a provision in this Title, whichever is earlier, or one for which a 
building permit has been issued, or erected in accordance with this code after its adoption. 
 
Building, Nonconforming.  A building existing or one for which a building permit has been issued 
at the time of the adoption of this code which does not comply with the regulations of the zoning 
district in which the building is located. 
 
Building, Principal.  A building in which is conducted the main or principal use of the property on 
which the building is situated. 
 
Canopy.  A shelter constructed of rigid materials covered with fabric, metal or other material, 
along windows and sidewalks at the first story of a building, and projecting from the exterior wall, 
which may be freestanding or supported by a building at one or more points and by columns or 
posts embedded in the ground at other points. 
 
Caretaker Unit.  One or more living quarters or lodging facilities located within a non-residential 
building for the use of employees of the use. A Caretaker Unit shall not be considered a ‘residential 
use’ or ‘residential unit’ for the purposes of this code but shall be c onsidered part of the non -
residential square footage for the purposes of the code. The combined square footage of all 
Caretaker Units shall not comprise more than ten (10) percent of the principal use’s building square 
footage (should dwel ling area exceed this amount, the living area shall be determined to be a 
“Mixed-use Dwelling” and a residential use for the purposes of this code). A Caretaker Unit is 
allowed as part of the approval of the principal use without any more restrictive approval process 
than that warranted for the principal use. 
Page 4 of 31 
 
 
Certificate of Compliance.  A certificate issued by the Development Office which indicates that 
the site plan requirements have been met. 
 
Changeable Sign .  A sign whose informational content can be changed or altered by manual, 
electric, electromechanical or electronic means. Changeable signs do not include Digital 
Billboards as defined in this code. 
 
Change of Use.  Change of use constitutes at least one of the following: 
1. The proposed use is appreciably different than the current use; 
2. There is an increase in the size of the existing building or extent of the use of the land; 
3. The use is permitted in the zoning district in which the use is located, but requires more 
parking than the previous use; 
4. The number of vehicle trips generated by the new use is or will be greater than the number 
of vehicle trips generated by the previous use as determined by the Institute of 
Transportation Engineers Trip Generation, latest edition; 
5. The amount of stormwater runoff or impervious (to drainage) surface area will be increased 
with the new use. 
 
Channel.  A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conveys 
continuously or periodically flowing water. Interchangeable terms include creek, drainageway, 
river, stream, and watercourse. 
 
City Engineer.  The City of Cheyenne City Engineer, his designated representative or the City 
Engineering Department. 
 
Comprehensive Plan .  The general plan for land use, transportation, utilities, annexation, and 
community facilities prepared and maintained by the Commission, and any other more specific 
plan, program or policy prepared under the guidance of that plan. 
 
Construction, New.  Structures for which the construction commenced on or after the effective 
date of the ordinance codified in this Title. 
 
Construction, Start of.  The first placement of permanent construction of a structure (other than a 
manufactured home), such as the excavation of footings or foundations, or the pouring of slabs or 
foundations. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clea ring, grading 
and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and/or sidewalks. For a structure (other 
than a manufactured home) without a basement or poured footings, the “start of construction” 
includes the first permanent framing or assembl y of the structure or any part thereof on its piling 
or foundation. For manufactured home not within a manufactured home park or subdivision, “start 
of construction” means the affixing of the manufactured home to its permanent site. For 
manufactured home within manufactured home parks or manufactured home subdivisions, “start 
of construction” is the date on which the structure is to be affixed. 
 
Corner lot.  See “Lot, corner.” 
 
Crosswalk.  Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing. 
Page 5 of 31 
 
 
Cul-de-sac.  A short dead-end street terminating with a vehicular turn-around area. 
 
Curb Radii.  The curved or flared portion of a street curb at driveway approaches or intersections. 
 
Decorative Fence .  A fence constructed out of materials such as wood, stone, or metal, or a 
combination thereof, primarily for aesthetic purposes to enhance the appearance of a property and 
generally not obstructing the visibility into or out of a property. A decorative fenc e shall not 
include chain link, wire, snow fences, or a standard wooden or vinyl privacy fences 
 
Detention.  The temporary storage of storm runoff in a stormwater management facility with the 
goals of controlling peak discharge rates and providing gravity settling of pollutants. 
 
Detention Facility .  A detention basin or alternative structure designed for the purpose of 
temporary storage of stream flow or surface runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled 
rates. 
 
Developer.  The owner of land proposed for development, or the owner’s authorized 
representative, or any person who causes the following to take place either directly or indirectly: 
division of property for the purpose of development; sells, leases or develops propert y, or offers 
or advertises or otherwise engages in business for the same; or has control or is controlled in such 
a way to have influence in any of the above. 
 
Development.  Any man-made change to real estate, including, but not limited to, the construction 
of buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling. 
 
Development Footprint .  The development footprint is the total land area that is permanently 
affected by development activities, and includes buildings, structures, hardscape, utilities, roads 
and parking areas, maneuvering areas, storage areas, areas associated with the use on the property, 
and areas cleared of natural vegetation and topsoil. 
 
Digital Billboard.  A billboard displaying static images controlled by electronic communications. 
 
Dissolve.  A transition between digital messages that is achieved with varying light intensity and 
where the first message gradually appears to dissipate and loses legibility simultaneous to the 
gradual appearance and legibility of the subsequent message. 
 
Double frontage lot.  See “Lot, double frontage.” 
 
Drive-in or Drive -up Facility .  A portion of an establishment designed for retail or service to 
persons in automobiles, including a driveway approach, order facilities, signs and delivery 
windows. 
 
Driveway.  A vehicle access way located on private property. 
 
Driveway Approach .  A constructed vehicle access point within the right -of-way between the 
roadway and the adjacent property line. 
Page 6 of 31 
 
 
Dwelling Unit .  One or more rooms which are intended for human occupancy as a place of 
residence with facilities for living, cooking and eating for one family unit, manifesting around one 
single kitchen, excluding wet bars with no stove or range, and one single laundry facility. Cooking 
facilities and other accommodations, such as laundry, should be accessible to all occupants of the 
dwelling through internally connected spaces. 
 
Easement.  A permanent or temporary grant of right by a property owner to the public, a 
corporation or other person(s) for the use of a strip or parcel of land for specified purposes. 
Ownership shall remain with the property owner. 
 
Electrical Sign.  A sign or sign structure in which electrical wiring, connections or fixtures are 
used. Electrical sign does not include a digital billboard as defined in this section. 
 
Fade.  A transition between static message displays that is achieved with varying light intensity 
and where the first message gradually loses light intensity to the point of not being legible and the 
subsequent message gradually increases intensity to the point of legibility. 
 
Family Unit.  One or more persons who are related by blood, marriage, domestic partnership or 
legal adoption living together as a single household; or a group of not more than four (4) persons 
not related by blood, marriage, domestic partnership or legal adoption, livin g together as a single 
household. 
 
Fence.  A man -made partition, structure, wall or a gate erected as a dividing marker, barrier, 
enclosure or screening device. 
 
Flag.  A sign made of fabric or other non-rigid material with no enclosing framework containing 
distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols, used as identification for or a symbol of a government, 
political subdivision, or other entity. 
 
Flashing.  A pattern of changing light illumination where the sign illumination alternates suddenly 
between fully illuminated and fully non-illuminated in a time frame of less than 4 seconds. 
 
Floor Area Ratio (FAR).  The total square feet of the building divided by the total square feet of 
the lot the building is located on. 
 
Foot Candle.  A unit of illuminance equal to 1 lumen, uniformly incident upon an area of 1 square 
foot. 
 
Freeboard.  A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of 
floodplain management. Freeboard compensates for the many unknown factors that could 
contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for the design flood. 
 
Functional turf grass .  An area of living turf grass or lawn that is used regularly for human 
recreational purposes or domestic animal use. Functional turf grass or lawns include Kentucky 
bluegrasses, fescues, or similar sod -forming grasses requiring ½ inch or more of supplementa l 
watering per week during hot, dry periods. 
Page 7 of 31 
 
 
Garage.  A building or portions of a building for the storage of automobiles or other property, 
accessory to the principle use of the site. 
 
Greenway.  A linear open space established along either a natural corridor, such as a stream valley, 
or overland along a road or railroad right -of-way converted to recreational use; a natural or 
landscaped course prepared for pedestrian or bicycle passage; certain de signated strips or linear 
parks and open spaces connected and designated by the City as part of the Greenway System. 
 
Height.  When referring to a tower or other structure, height is the distance measured from the 
finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or other structure, including the base 
pad and any antenna. 
 
High-power Transmission Lines .  Transmission lines which carry sixty -nine thousand (69,000) 
volts or more. 
 
Immediate.  A transition between static message displays that is achieved in 2 seconds or less. 
 
Impoundment Yard.  A fenced yard or enclosed area where storage of vehicles seized by, and in 
the custody of, a government agency, are stored for retrieval by the vehicle owner or are sold by 
proper means by the agency. 
 
Improvement.  Buildings, structures and all facilities of a public nature indented for public use – 
including streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, alleys and other public ways, parks, recreational 
facilities, water, sewage, solid waste disposal and other sanitary systems and facilities. 
 
Infill Development .  For commercial or residential parcels shall be defined by the following 
criteria: 
1. One parcel surrounded by urban development on at least three sides (does not have to be 
directly adjacent to); and 
2. Served by existing underground sewer and water utilities. 
 
Infiltration.  The process of percolating stormwater into the subsoil. 
 
Interior lot.  See “Lot, interior.” 
 
Intermittent.  A pattern of changing light intensity, other than that achieved with immediate, fade 
or dissolve transitions, where any message remains static for over 4 seconds. 
 
Intersection.  The junction of two streets. 
 
Land Disturbance Activity.  Grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil, placement 
of fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any activity which 
bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any natural or man-made watercourse. 
 
Landscape Points System .  The point system used for determining the minimum vegetation 
requirement. 
Page 8 of 31 
 
 
Landscaped Setback.  The minimum required landscaping area on private or government -owned 
property which is adjacent to a property line common to a street right -of-way. Driveways and 
sidewalks to afford required access shall be allowed to interrupt this required space. 
 
Landscape, Street Tree Area.  The landscaped area between property line and the street, within the 
right-of-way. 
 
Landscaping.  Any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, 
flowers or grass; natural features, such as rock, stone, bark chips or shavings; and structural 
features, including, but not limited to, fountains, reflecting pools, outside art  work, screen walls, 
fences or benches. 
 
Landscaping, Internal .  That area that lies within the property lines not covered by buildings, 
parking, outside storage, sidewalks and driveways. 
 
Landscaping, Xeriscape.  A water-saving landscape design that limits turf areas, utilizes mulches, 
efficient irrigation (often drip or subsurface) and use of native or drought-tolerant plant materials. 
When done properly, it is as lush and green as traditional landscapes, but has the benefits of lower 
water use and less maintenance after establishment. 
 
Loading Space.  An on- or off-street space for the standing, loading, and unloading of vehicles, 
people or articles. 
 
Lot.  A designated unit of land established by a plat or otherwise as permitted by law, for the 
transfer of ownership or to be used, developed, or built upon, whether immediate or future. 
 
Low Impact Development (LID).  An approach to land development (or redevelopment) that works 
with nature to manage stormwater as close to its source as possible. LID emphasizes conservation 
and use of on-site natural features to protect water quality. This approach implements engineered  
small-scale hydrologic controls to mimic the pre -development hydrologic regime of watersheds 
through infiltrating, filtering, storing, evaporating, and detaining runoff. The term Green 
Infrastructure may also be used. 
 
Major Drainageway.  Any drainage flow path mapped with an area of special flood hazard on the 
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). 
 
Manufactured Home.  A structure transportable in one or more sections which, in the traveling 
mode, is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, 
is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a 
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and 
includes the plumbing, heating, air- conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except 
that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except 
the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification 
required by the secretary (HUD) and complies with the standards established by HUD. For 
manufactured homes built prior to June 15, 1976, a label certifying compliance to the standard for 
mobile homes, NFPA 501, ANSI 119.1, in effect at the time of manufacture is required. 
Page 9 of 31 
 
 
Massage Therapy.  A medical service that emphasizes the therapeutic benefits of massage, aiming 
to address specific health concerns and practiced by a person who holds a massage therapist permit 
pursuant to chapter 5.52, title 5, of the city code. 
 
Moving Light.  The physical change in position of any visible illumination source while lighted or 
the simulation of movement achieves with a pattern of sequentially illuminating visible 
illumination sources within close proximity to each other. 
 
MS4 Permit.  A state or federal stormwater discharge permit to regulate discharges from municipal 
separate storm sewer systems (MS4s) for compliance with Clean Water Act regulations; used 
interchangeably with the term National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit 
and collectively referred to as federal stormwater discharge permit. 
 
Nonfunctional turf grass.  An area of living turf grass or lawn that is not used regularly for human 
recreational purposes or domestic animal use. Nonfunctional turf grass or lawns include Kentucky 
bluegrasses, fescues, or similar sod -forming grasses requiring ½ inch or more of supplemental 
watering per week during hot, dry periods. 
 
Nonpoint Source Pollution.  Pollution from any source other than from any discernible, confined, 
and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not be limited to, pollutants from agricultural, 
silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources. 
 
Off-premise Sign.  Any sign not identified as a “Billboard” and which is used for the purpose of 
displaying, advertising, identifying, or directing attention to a business, service, activity or place, 
including products or services sold or offered for sale, on premises other than the premises where 
such sign is displayed. 
 
Open Space Systems .  A system of various types of outdoor space, designed to function as 
aesthetic, recreation, and ecological support for development. Elements of the open space system 
can include private, common, or public open spaces. 
 
Owner.  The owner of record of a parcel of land, as recorded in the office of the county clerk. 
 
Parapet. The architectural enhancement in the design of the façade that extends ornamental details 
above a roof line to the extent necessary to screen the roof and roof-top equipment. 
 
Parcel.  A contiguous unit of land owned and recorded as the property of the same persons or 
controlled by a single entity. 
 
Parking Lot.  An area other than a street or alley designated for the parking of five or more motor 
vehicles. 
 
Parking Space.  A space specially designed for the parking of a motor vehicle. 
 
Party Wall.  A wall common to two or more units which are intended to be individually owned. 
 
Page 10 of 31 
 
Pedestrian.  A person on foot or a self -propelled conveyance intended for use of persons with 
physical impairments. 
 
Person.  An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, or association, or any combination of these, 
or any other legal or commercial entity acting as a unit. 
 
Pre-existing Towers and Pre-existing Antennas.  Any tower or antenna for which a building permit 
or wireless telecommunications permit (WTP) was issued prior to the effective date of this Title, 
including permitted towers or antennas that have not yet been constructed so long as such approval 
is current and not expired. 
 
Public Drainage System .  The system of storm sewers, channels, culverts, creeks, flows within 
public streets, and associated detention and water quality structures owned and maintained by the 
City of Cheyenne, Laramie County, or the Wyoming Department of Transportation. 
 
Public Land.  Land owned, controlled and/or operated by a governmental unit. 
 
Published Notice.  A notice provided in accordance with Wyoming Statutes. 
 
Recreational Vehicle (RV) . A vehicle or unit primarily designed for human habitation for 
recreation or travel, which may include a motor home, camper, travel trailer, or park model 
recreational vehicle. 
 
Redevelopment.  The replacement of impervious surfaces on a developed site that is surrounded 
by urban development on at least three sides. Redevelopment occurs when the existing facilities 
are demolished and rebuilt or substantially changed through reconstruction. Resurf acing parking 
lots with no charge in overall dimensions or drainage patterns is not considered redevelopment 
even if the pavement is completely replaced. 
 
Regional Detention Facilities.  A system or parts of a system to control run-off from a defined area 
within a drainage basin and designed to coordinate with other similar facilities to manage the 
drainage basin and tributaries, typically considering areas greater than 100 acres or capaci ties of 
more than 30 acre -feet or as otherwise specified in a drainage master plan or current Storm 
Drainage Manual. 
 
Remainder Lot.  A lot or tract of land designated on a plat which is not eligible for development, 
or to service adjacent development, and may be reserved for future platting. A remainder lot shall 
not be for the purpose of sale, lease, or financing; nor be eligible for development. Remainder lots 
shall not be required to meet the dimensional standards of the zoning district. Developed 
properties, excluding land developed for agricultural purposes, are not eligible to be remainder 
lots. Remainder lot(s) must be referred to as “outlots”, “remainder lots”, or “tracts” on plats. 
 
Right-of-way.  Land dedicated and set aside for use by the public, primarily for the right of vehicle 
or pedestrian travel, but typically designed to include multiple and other public purposes. 
 
Roadway.  That portion of a street designed and intended primarily for vehicles. 
 
Page 11 of 31 
 
Sanitary System.  A sewer system or systems including mechanisms of collection, treatment and 
disposal of domestic and/or commercial sewage. 
 
Screening.  A feature used to visually separate elements on abutting or adjacent development sites. 
 
Self-Contained Unit.  A recreational vehicle equipped with its own water supply, sanitary facilities, 
and wastewater containment, capable of independent habitation without reliance on shared 
utilities, except for electrical or water hookups. 
 
Sidewalk.  That portion of a street designed and intended primarily for use of pedestrians. 
 
Sign.  Any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display illustration or insignia, or other 
identification, that is visible from any public place or is located on private property and exposed 
to the public and that directs attention to a product, service, pla ce, activity, person, institution, 
business or solicitation, including structures that exist to support or enhance the sign. 
 
Sign, Animated.  A sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or create a 
special effect or scene. 
 
Signs, Building Marker.  A sign indicating the name of a building, a date and incidental information 
about its construction, cut into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material. 
 
Sign, Abandoned.  A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide business, service, 
owner, product, or activity, and/or for which no legal owner can be found. 
 
Sign, Electronic Message Center .  A sign where alphabetic, pictographic or symbolic 
informational content can be changed or altered on a fixed display surface composed of electrically 
illuminated or mechanically driven, changeable segments. 
 
Sign, Government.  A sign erected and maintained by the United States or state of Wyoming, or 
any political subdivision thereof, for traffic direction or for designation of or direction to any 
school, hospital, historical site or public service, property or facility. 
 
Sign, Nameplate.  A sign giving only the name, address and/or occupation of an occupant or group 
of occupants. 
 
Sign, Portable.  A sign not permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure, or a 
sign designed to be transported, including, but not limited to, signs designed to be transported by 
means of wheels, signs converted to A - or T-frames, and balloons used as si gns. “Portable sign” 
shall not include umbrellas used for advertising, signs carried by individuals, and signs attached 
to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right -of-way when such vehicle is 
used in the normal day-to-day operations of a business. 
 
Site Plan.  A plan of the land showing the existing and proposed features for the property. 
 
Static.  Having no motion within a particular message or copy displayed on a digital billboard. 
 
Page 12 of 31 
 
Storm Sewer.  An underground pipe system that carries stormwater from streets and other surfaces 
and discharges directly to a pond, stream or river; used interchangeably with the term “storm 
drain.” 
 
Stormwater Management.  Anything associated with the planning, construction, maintenance, or 
regulation of facilities which collect, store, convey or treat stormwater. 
 
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).  A written plan required under state and federal 
stormwater discharge permits identifying measures that will be implemented to minimize the 
discharge of pollutants in stormwater. Requirements for SWPPPs are specified in state and federal 
discharge permits. Requirements vary depending on whether the discharge permit is associated 
with municipal, industrial, or construction activities. 
 
Stormwater Retrofit.  A stormwater management practice designed for an existing development 
site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate 
to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site. 
 
Stormwater Runoff.  Also known as Stormwater, means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting 
from precipitation. Interchangeable terms include drainage and runoff. 
 
Street.  Any public way for the movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic which is an existing 
federal, state, county or municipal roadway; or a right -of-way shown upon a plat, and approved 
pursuant to law, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise pavement, shoulders, curbs, 
gutters, sidewalks, parking areas and other areas within the right-of- way. 
 
Street, Arterial .  Refers to the functional classification of a street in the entire transportation 
network, which has considerable continuity over long distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the context, the stan dards in these 
regulations, and other specific transportation plans and policies. 
 
Street, Collector.  Refers to the functional classification of a street in the entire transportation 
network, which has moderate continuity over medium distances, and which is more specifically 
designed for speeds, volume and applicability according to the context, the standa rds in these 
regulations, and other specific transportation plans and policies. 
 
Street, Local.  Refers to the functional classification of a street in the entire transportation network, 
which has limited continuity except for short distances, and which is more specifically designed 
for speeds, volume and applicability according to the context, the s tandards in these regulations, 
and other specific transportation plans and policies. 
 
Structure.  That which is built or constructed, an edifice, or building of any kind, or any piece of 
work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. 
 
Tiedown.  Any device designed to anchor a manufactured home or any other accessory building or 
structure to the ground. 
 
Page 13 of 31 
 
Temporary Use.  A use or activity that is intended to occupy the site on a non-continuous basis for 
more than 14 days. 
 
Tower.  Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one 
or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, including self -
supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or monopole towers. The term includes, but is not limited 
to, radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common -carrier towers, cellular 
telephone towers, alternative tower structures and any tower support. 
 
Tract.  A unit of land established by a plat or otherwise as permitted by law, designated for limited 
or no development as part of an approved plan for a legitimate public or community purpose and 
designated for public or common ownership and maintenance. 
 
Traffic-control Devices.  Signs, signals, markings, or other approved geometric designs in the 
roadway approved by the public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, 
warning, guiding, or calming traffic. 
 
Triple frontage lot.  See “Lot, triple frontage.” 
 
Unit Space.  A designated portion of a manufactured home park for the accommodation of one 
manufactured home. 
 
Urban Drainage and Flood Control District (UDFCD) .  The metropolitan Denver drainage 
organization. 
 
Utilities, Essential Services.  Those utility facilities that provide end user services to customers. 
They include local distribution and collection lines for gas, electricity, water, sewer, telephone or 
cable TV services throughout neighborhoods and connect with each customer. They cons ist of 
cables, wires or pipes with limited capacities and the associated hardware, such as transformers, 
relays and shut-off valves. They also consist of traffic-control boxes and traffic signal installations. 
 
Utility Facilities.  Any utility facility, whether or not regulated by the Wyoming Public Service 
Commission, not described as an essential service utility. 
 
Wall, Retaining.  A physical barrier necessary to prevent erosion and/or retain earth. 
 
Water Quality Capture Volume (WQCV) .  Represents runoff from frequent storm events such as 
the 80th percentile storm. The volume varies depending on local rainfall data. The WQCV is based 
on runoff from 0.6 inches of precipitation (approximately 0.5 inches of runoff). 
 
Water System.  A public or private system of providing potable water to a structure for domestic 
use. 
 
Woonerf.  A street designed for use by pedestrian and vehicular traffic, where the pedestrian has 
the right-of-way. 
 
WyDEQ.  The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality. 
Page 14 of 31 
 
 
Section 4.  That Section 1.4.4 of the UDC is amended to read as follows: 
 
1.4.4 Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings 
 
This section contains general descriptions associated with the uses of land and buildings. It is 
organized according to categories of uses and specific types of uses within each category. These 
categories and types correspond to the Use Table in Article 5,  Zoning Regulations. Where a use 
appears to meet two or more descriptions or where a use is not described, the Director shall make 
a determination. If a use meets all of the characteristics of a use category and use type, or is so 
similar to a described us e type as to create no anticipated differential impact, the Director may 
interpret that the described use includes the additional use. In making this determination, the 
Director shall compare: (a) the intensity and scale of the use relative to the site; (b) the typical site 
and building designs associated with the use; (c) the functional or operational characteristics and 
the potential impacts of the use on adjacent property; and (d) the potential contribution of the use 
to the overall character of the district or districts in which the comparable use is allowed. All other 
uses which cannot be interpreted in this manner are different from the described uses, are not 
anticipated by these regulations, and may only be allowed by a zoning text amendment. 
 
a. Residential Uses . The Residential use category is for all types of dwelling units used for 
permanent residence, including a variety of lot types, building types, and unit types, that may 
vary in the kind and classes of buildings based on the character of the neighborhood. 
 
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse” / “Rowhouse”) .  A Residential use in a building 
designed with a series of attached principal dwelling units separated by a single common 
wall. Each unit is typically situated on its own fee simple lot where party walls are used, 
but buildings or grounds may be owned in co mmon. Each unit has the same orientation 
and front façade, and has its own private entrance to the exterior of the structure. 
 
Detached Dwelling.  A Residential use in a detached building designed as a single principal 
dwelling unit and situated on its own fee simple lot. 
 
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”).  A Residential use in a detached building designed as 
two principal dwelling units. It may be designed as a “paired house,” matching the 
appearance of a house, or it may be designed as a “flat-over-flat,” matching the appearance 
of a small apartment building. A duplex is situated on its own fee simple lot, but each unit 
of a side-by-side paired house may be platted on an individual lot if party walls are used. 
 
Cottage Lot.  A Residential use utilizing detached dwellings, semi -attached dwellings, or 
attached dwellings designed to face a common area (typically open space) with other 
shared facilities (such as shared public street access, shared parking, shared trash 
collection, etc.). Individual dwelling units may be on fee simple lots, a condominium, or 
on one larger ownership parcel. A cottage lot is also known as “bungalow court” or “cottage 
court”. Cottage lots are subject to the provisions of UDC Section 6.6.5. 
 
Group Housing.  A residential use, Group Housing is the provision of in -home, 24-hour, 
7-days a week custodial care for from 1 to 6 individuals living together as a single 
Page 15 of 31 
 
housekeeping unit in a single -family, detached dwelling unit. This maximum number 
excludes staff. This use does not include a household where custodial care is provided by 
a family member to from 1 to 6 persons in a single -family, detached dwelling unit. 
Custodial care includes the provision of in -home personal assistance, housekeeping 
service, supervision, and limited medical assistance to a resident or residents. Examples of 
Group Housing include, but are not limited to, homes for elders and disabled or m obility- 
impaired persons, homes for rehabilitation from drugs or alcohol addiction, or homes for 
formerly incarcerated persons. The Group Housing use is subject to the provisions of 
Section 5.7.5.d and e of the UDC. 
 
Dormitories.  A Residential use in a building that provides sleeping accommodations for a 
number of people. 
 
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”).  A Residential use in a building designed for more 
than two principal dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot. This building type 
includes a variety of variations based on the permitted building scale, including “stacked 
flats” (3-story/tri-plex), “six-plex” (paired stacked flats), or larger apartment buildings. 
 
Live/Work.  A primarily residential use in a building designed for two principal uses, where 
a portion is designed for residential dwelling use, and a portion is designed for a limited 
non-residential use to support the occupation or vocation of the resident of the dw elling 
unit. The non-residential portion is limited to the 1st story and less than 50% of the total 
floor area of the building. The building is situated on its own fee simple lot but may be 
attached or detached based on zoning district standards and context. 
 
Mixed-use Dwelling.  A Residential use in a building designed for a mix of uses with office 
or retail on the 1st story / street -front and residential uses on the upper stories where the 
dwelling units are not accessory to the non -residential uses. Mixed-use buildings may be 
either small - or large -scale, with larger scale buildings, depending on the context and 
zoning district standards, and typically being broken into multiple fee simple lots with party 
walls, but the dwelling units may be owned in fee simple, as condominiums, or apartments. 
 
Accessory Dwelling.  A separate dwelling unit that is associated with, incidental to, and 
subordinate to another dwelling unit as the principal use, and is located on the same lot as 
the principal dwelling (commonly referred to as “In -laws Quarters” or “Garage 
Apartment”). 
 
Urban Loft Building.  A residential use in a building designed for more than two principal 
dwelling units and situated on a single fee simple lot. This building type contemplates a 
taller multifamily building, often with parking structured or at grade with the building 
above, located in a walkable, mixed use context. 
 
Manufactured Home Park.  See “Manufactured Housing Park”. 
 
Manufactured housing parks.  An area of land under one fee ownership, where designated 
spaces for manufactured home homesare rented for use as a principal dwelling unit, and 
which may provide associated facilities for common use. 
Page 16 of 31 
 
 
Campground.  A Service Use accommodating overnight stays in tents, cabins, or other non-
motorized shelters.  
 
Combined Manufactured Housing Park.  A Residential Use comprised of a manufactured 
housing park that, in addition to accommodating manufactured homes, has been licensed 
and has maintained a license, by the city/county health department to allow recreational 
vehicles to occupy independent s paces on the same site. Such facilities are recognized as 
nonconforming uses and may not be established in the City. 
 
Recreational Vehicle Park .  A Service Use providing accommodations for recreational 
vehicles, travel trailers, motor homes, dependent travel units, and park model recreational  
vehicles. 
 
b. Civic Uses . The Civic use category includes uses  serving a broad and general public and 
community interest to enhance daily cultural, social or recreation opportunities for area 
landowners and residents. This category is based on the need of different kinds and classes of 
buildings in close proximity with other uses, which can be integrated in to these areas with the 
appropriate level of civic design. The Civic use category may contain uses that are either public 
and accessible to all citizens; common and accessible by rights associated with ownership; o r 
private and accessible by membership or general association. 
 
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) .  A Civic use that conducts 
organized services, assemblies, or programs on a periodic or occasional basis, primarily 
for the convenience, entertainment, education, and social or spiritual welfare of nearby 
residents. Neighborhood Assemblies typically have bu ildings and supporting facilities 
designed for a capacity of no more than 350 people for any one event. Common examples 
include meeting halls, neighborhood association club houses, or smaller neighborhood 
churches. 
 
Community Assembly (350 -1000 maximum occupancy) .  A Civic use that conducts 
organized services, assemblies, or programs on a periodic or occasional basis, primarily 
for the convenience, entertainment, education, and social or spiritual welfare for citizens 
in the general vicinity. Community Assemblies typ ically have buildings and supporting 
facilities designed for a capacity of no more than 1000 people for any one event. Common 
examples include community centers, museum, or large churches. [ For larger ass emblies 
see Entertainment, Venue]. 
 
Cemeteries.  A Civic use where land is used for the burial of the deceased, both human and 
animals, and dedicated for internment purposes, including columbaria, crematoria, 
mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundary 
of such cemetery. 
 
Primary and Secondary Schools .  A Civic use where buildings and facilities are used for 
the education and instruction of K through 12 students. 
 
Page 17 of 31 
 
Educational Facilities .  A Civic use where buildings and facilities are used for the 
education and instruction of post -secondary students, non -traditional students, or 
continuing education for adult or general population. 
 
Community Athletic Field .  A noncommercial facility for active outdoor recreation and 
organized sports, including a facility which is an accessory use to a school, but excluding 
any facility with lighted fields or permanent buildings for refreshment stands, locker rooms 
or shower facilities. 
 
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium.  A facility for active outdoor recreation and organized 
sports which includes lighted fields, permanent grandstands, or permanent buildings for 
refreshment stands, locker rooms or shower facilities. 
 
c. Service Uses . The Service use category is for businesses engaged in the exchange of 
professional skills, advice, personal care or other resources, and the nature of the exchange 
generally requires frequent interactions with the clients, customers or patrons on the premises, 
and where lots or buildings may require access or exposure to the public-at-large. 
 
Service Business – Limited.  A Service use that primarily supports adjacent residential uses 
by providing daily services for the convenience of residents, and involving less than 3,000 
square feet of gross leasable area. Examples include post office, bank outlet, barber shop 
or beauty salon, tailor, or other similar services. 
 
Service Business – General.  A Service use that provides support for adjacent residential 
uses or businesses which may involve more than 3,000 square feet of gross leasable area. 
Examples include copy centers, large banks, or any other similar services that exceed the 
scale of Service Business – Limited. 
 
Assisted Living Facility / Nursing Home.  A Service use / institutional occupancy providing 
residential accommodations for 7 or more persons to meet the needs of the aging, semi -
dependent or dependent population in a residential environment, together with recreation 
and support services and facilities for the benefit of the residents and where any permanent 
on- site staff is accessory to the primarily residential use. On -site skilled nursing care or 
medical facilities may be provided. An Assisted Living Fac ility/Nursing Home use is 
subject to the provisions of Section 5.7.5 of the UDC. An Assisted Living facility/Nursing 
Home use, pursuant to this definition, does not include a Group Housing use or site. An 
Assisted Living Facility/Nursing Home operation may take place within a residential or a 
non-residential structure. 
 
Animal Care, Kennel.  A Service use where domestic animals are boarded, bred or sold as 
a primary business. Animal Care, Hospital / Clinic. A Service use where animals are 
admitted for examination, treatment, or health care by a doctor of veterinary medicine, 
which may include kennels, runs or other accessory accommodations. 
 
Family Child Care Home (FCCH).  A Service use where preschool care and education is 
provided for up to 10 children within the owner’s primary residence. The owner’s infants, 
toddler and/or children ages three (3) to five (5) shall count toward the capacity. 
Page 18 of 31 
 
 
Family Child Care Center (FCCC).  A Service use where preschool care and education is 
provided for up to 15 children within the owner’s primary residence. The owner’s infants, 
toddler and/or children ages three (3) to five (5) shall count toward the capacity. 
 
Child Care Center (CCC).  A Service use where preschool care and education is provided 
for children on a regular basis not located in any person’s residence. 
 
Emergency Shelter.  A facility, which provides shelter or overnight accommodations and 
incidental support services for persons experiencing homelessness and/ or families on a 
short-term basis. 
 
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility .  A Service use where facilities for indoor 
sports, entertainment, or similar recreation opportunities for participants and spectators are 
offered. Examples of uses include bowling alleys, pool halls, roller skating rinks, 
swimming pools, movie theaters, vi deo or similar gaming venues, racquetball courts, or 
fitness clubs. 
 
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility .  A Service use where facilities for outdoor 
sports, entertainment, or similar recreation opportunities for participants and spectators are 
offered. Examples include racetracks, driving ranges, music performance venues, or other 
outdoor entertainment venues. 
 
Entertainment, Venue.  A Service use where music concerts, floor shows or other forms of 
entertainment, performances or presentations by persons are provided indoors for guests or 
the general public, which may include accessory dining, bar, and similar refreshment 
services. Exam ples include concert halls, theatrical performance art centers, dinner 
theaters, other food or beverage -serving establishments providing live entertainment 
venues, banquet halls, or auditoriums. 
 
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation Services—Other.  A Service use primarily engaged 
in the operation of indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement and recreation services not 
elsewhere classified, such as off -track betting, indoor or outdoor shooting range, 
amusement parks, or similar sports or recreation venues. 
 
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast .  A Service use where up to six guest rooms are rented, 
generally for short -term occupancy for sleeping, together with limited facilities for the 
accommodations of guests in a home-like atmosphere. 
 
Lodging, Hotel or Motel .  A Service use where six or more guest rooms are rented, 
generally for short- term occupancy for sleeping, together with incidental meeting rooms, 
restaurants and recreation facilities for the primary benefit of the guests. 
 
Medical Care, Clinic .  A Service use where physicians, dentists, or other health care 
professionals are associated for the purpose of carrying on their professions. A health clinic 
may include a dental or medical laboratory, after hours emergency care, but it may not 
include in-patient care or operating rooms for major surgery. 
Page 19 of 31 
 
 
Medical Care, Office .  A Service use where physicians, dentists, or other health care 
professionals carrying on their professions. A medical office may include a dental or 
medical laboratory, but may not include in -patient care or operating rooms for major 
surgery and may not be open for after-hours emergency care. 
 
Medical Care, Hospital.  A Service use providing health services, primarily for inpatients, 
and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral part of the 
institution such related facilities as laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, 
central service facilities and staff offices. 
 
Mini Storage.  A Service use where a building or group of buildings in a controlled access 
and fenced compound that contains varying sizes(s) of individual, compartmentalized and 
controlled-access stalls or lockers for the storage of a customer’s goods or wares. Mini 
Storage may include individual units accessed from inside of a building offered for rent or 
lease for the storage of personal property. It may also include parking areas for the storage 
of vehicles, trailers, recreational vehicles, boats, snow mobiles and other similar items as 
an accessory use. Outdoor storage, or the storage of junk, explosives, or flammable 
materials and other noxious or dangerous materials are specifically prohibited. 
 
Storage, Yard.  A Service use where exterior yards are leased for the outdoor storage of 
large-item personal property such as boats or recreational vehicles. 
 
d. Employment Uses. The Employment use category is for businesses engaged in administrative, 
clerical, and professional operations and support, where products or services are of the nature 
that generally, when compared to Retail Use Types, do not require daily on -premise 
interactions with the clients, customers or patrons, and where lots and buildings are not 
primarily designed to maximize exposure to the public-at-large. 
 
Home Occupation.  A business which is carried on entirely within a legal or legal non -
conforming dwelling or allowed accessory building, and which is clearly incidental and 
secondary to the use of the premises as a dwelling. 
 
Office - Limited.  An Employment use which is not an accessory to another use, but limited 
individual units of gross leasable area are less than 3,500 square feet, and where each owner 
or tenant typically employs less than 20 employees on premises. Examples include small -
scale professional service offices such as accountants, architects, insurance, law, real 
estate, or other similar businesses which can operate within the unit square footage and 
employee limits of this category. 
 
Office - General.  An Employment use where individual units of gross leasable area are 
between 3,500 and 20,000 square feet, and where each owner or tenant typically employs 
between 20 and 100 employees on premises. Examples include large professional service 
offices such as  accountants, architects, insurance, law, real estate, or other similar 
businesses which exceed the Office - Limited category, or other moderate size business or 
corporate employment operations. 
 
Page 20 of 31 
 
Major Office or Office Complex .  An Employment use where individual units of gross 
leasable area may be more than 20,000 square feet in a single building or group of 
buildings, and each owner or tenant may typically employ more than 100 employees on 
premises. Examples include major professional service firms or large corporate offices. 
 
e. Commercial Uses. The Commercial use category is for businesses engaged in the exchange 
of merchandise for general consumers, and nature of the exchange generally requires frequent 
interactions with the clients, customers or patrons on the premises, where lots or buildings are 
primarily designed for exposure to the public-at-large. 
 
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) .  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the 
small-scale sale of household merchandise and general consumer products and involving 
less than 2,000 square feet of gross leasable area. Convenience Retail / Corner Store uses 
are characterized by target market areas of less than 1/4 mile radius for most of its on -
premise sales or are associated accessory to an employment or service business. 
 
Neighborhood Retail (<5K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the small-scale sale 
of household merchandise and general consumer products and involving less than 5,000 
square feet of gross leasable area. Neighborhood retail uses are characterized by a target 
market area of less than ½ mile radius for most of its on premise sales. 
 
General Retail (5K - 25K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty merchandise, and consumer products and involving between 5,000 
and 25,000 square feet of gross leasable area. General Retail uses are characterized by a 
target market area of less than 1 mile radius for most of its on-premise sales. 
 
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the sale of 
household merchandise, specialty merchandise or general consumer products and 
involving between 25,000 and 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area. Large - scale 
Retail uses are characterized by a target market area that may be greater than 1 mile radius 
for the on- premise component of its sales. 
 
Warehouse Retail (> 100K).  A Commercial use primarily engaged in the sale of household 
merchandise, specialty products, general consumer products, or wholesale products and 
involving greater than 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area. Warehouse Retail uses 
are characterized by a target market area that may be more than 1 mile radius for most of 
its sales. 
 
Grocery Store (<45K).  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of a broad range of 
food products and limited household products for consumption off premises, although 
some limited areas may be dedicated to the on -premise sale and consumption of food. A 
grocery store involves  less than 45,000 square feet of gross leasable area and is 
characterized by a target market of less than 1-mile radius. 
 
Supermarket (> 45K) .  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of a broad range of 
food and household products for consumption off premises, although some limited areas 
may be dedicated to the on- premise sale and consumption of food. A supermarket typically 
Page 21 of 31 
 
involves more than 45,000 square feet of gross leasable area and is characterized by a target 
market of greater than 1-mile radius. 
 
Outdoor Sales, Limited.  The limited display of merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior 
private area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted Commercial use. This display 
is further limited by the following: (1) it only occurs during regular business hours and is 
brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent to less than 10% of the entire merchandise area of 
the Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sales or events lasting no longer than 
one-week at a time with at least 4 weeks between consecutive events. 
 
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal.  The limited display of merchandise on a sidewalk or an exterior 
private area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted 
 
Commercial use.  This display is further limited by the following: (1) it only occurs during 
regular business hours and is brought indoors; (2) is limited in extent to less than 20% of 
the entire merchandise area of the Commercial use; and (3) it is limited to seasonal sal es 
or events lasting no longer than one month at a time with at least 2 months between 
consecutive events. 
 
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area .  The display of merchandise on a sidewalk or an 
exterior private area of a site associated with an otherwise permitted Commercial use that 
does not meet the limitations of Limited or Seasonal Outdoor Sales, and which may require 
areas to be designed and dedicated for display when part of the permanent operations of an 
interior retail business. Examples include lumber yards and garden centers. 
 
Outdoor Sales .  The display and sale of merchandise where the primary business is 
generated by merchandise displayed permanently and year round on an exterior portion of 
the site. Examples include automobile sales and implement sales. 
 
Bars.  A Commercial use primarily engaged in serving alcoholic beverages for 
consumption on-premises. Any food or entertainment services are generally secondary or 
accessory to the business. 
 
Liquor Store.  A Commercial use engaged primarily in the retail sale of alcoholic beverages 
for consumption off -premises. The sale of food or accessory beverage supplies are 
generally secondary or accessory to the business. 
 
Automobile Service Repair .  A Commercial use engaged in the repair, maintenance, 
condition, detailing, or cleaning of motor vehicles and including the accessory sales of 
lubricants, parts, or accessories. Services also include any modification, assembly or 
painting of motor vehicles and repair of internal combustion engines. 
 
Automobile Service Station – Limited.  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of fuel, 
and may include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair services, or maintenance 
services. This use is limited to no more than 2 fuel pump islands and no more than 8 fueling 
stations. 
 
Page 22 of 31 
 
Automobile Service Station – General.  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of 
fuel, and may include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair services, or 
maintenance services, or accessory Convenience Retail. This use is limited to no more than 
4 fuel pump islands and no more than 16 fueling stations. 
 
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale.  A Commercial use engaged in the retail sale of 
fuel, and may include accessory sales of lubricants, accessories, repair services, or 
maintenance services, or accessory Convenience Retail. This use may have more than 4 
fuel pump islands and more than 16 fueling stations. 
 
Food Service – Limited (< 2K).  Any Commercial use engaged in the preparation and retail 
sale of food and beverages for consumption on -site and including less than 2,000 square 
feet of seating area. 
 
Food Service – General (2K – 4K).  Any Commercial use engaged in the preparation and 
retail sale of food and beverages for consumption on-site and including between 2,000 and 
4,000 square feet of seating area. 
 
Food Service – Large-scale (> 4k).  Any Commercial use engaged in the preparation and 
retail sale of food and beverages for consumption on site and including more than 4,000 
square feet of seating area. 
 
f. Industrial Use Category . The Industrial use category is for businesses engaged in 
manufacturing, fabrication, warehousing, processing, wholesale or disposal of goods, products 
and component parts, and services related to these businesses. These uses typically belong in 
a special district due to their inability to blend with the uses from other use categories, except 
when occurring at the smallest scale. 
 
Data Center.  A use consisting of buildings or structures specifically designed or modified 
to house networked computers and data and transaction processing equipment and related 
infrastructure support equipment, including power and cooling equipment. A data center 
may be used to provide data and transaction processing services, outsource information 
technology services and/or computer equipment colocation services. A data center may 
also include buildings or structures that support the operation of the dat a center including 
retrofit buildings, warehousing for logistics, independent network buildings, buildings for 
support staff, and emergency generators. A Data Center shall not include activities which 
consistently produce noise discernable at the property line. Should a Data Center produce 
noise discernable at the property line, it shall be classified as an Industrial use. 
 
Limited Industrial.  An Industrial use where small -scale activities produce no byproducts 
such as smoke, odor, dust or noise discernable from the outside of the building in which it 
is located. Individual facilities typically occupy less than 10,000 square feet of gross 
leasable area and distribution and deliveries are commonly made by general consumer 
delivery services, requiring no significant truck access. A retail, showroom, or service 
component is often associated with the use. Examples include artist studios, metal and 
wood shops, arts and crafts manufacturing, small appliance or machine repairs, or other 
small-scale assembly of finished parts or products from previously prepared materials. 
Page 23 of 31 
 
 
Moderate Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or 
noise are not discernable from outside of the building in which it is located. Distribution 
and deliveries can occur from general consumer delivery services or limited commercial 
truck access. Examples include research labs or facilities, small electronics or computer 
assembly and manufacturing, furniture assembly. 
 
General Industrial.  An Industrial use where byproducts such as smoke, odor, dust or noise 
are not discernable from beyond the property boundary. Operations may require 
commercial vehicle access for distribution and deliveries. Examples include non -animal 
food processing, comm ercial warehouses or wholesale distribution centers or energy 
industry services. 
 
Industrial.  An Industrial use capable of producing significant byproducts discernable from 
outside the building and property including noise, odors, or other potentially offensive 
materials. Operations may require substantial commercial vehicle access for distribution  
and deliveries. Examples include food -processing involving animals (large -scale), metal 
or chemical manufacturing, and data centers which consistently produce noise discernable 
at the property line. 
 
Limited Outdoor Storage.  A use where less than 50% of the lot is used to store equipment 
and other materials customarily used in the operations associated with the principal use of 
the property in an unenclosed area. 
 
Outdoor Storage.  A use not classified as Limited Outdoor Storage where property is used 
to store equipment, vehicles, or other materials in an unenclosed area. 
 
Impoundment Yards .  An industrial use where a government agency establishes and 
operates a fenced yard or enclosed area where storage of vehicles seized by, and in the 
custody of, the government agency, are stored for retrieval by the vehicle owner or are sold 
by proper means by the agency. 
 
Salvage Yards.  An Industrial use where materials are extracted from unusable equipment, 
structures, or vehicles and stored for future use or resale. 
 
Junk Yards.  An Industrial use where waste or used material are bought, sold, exchanged, 
stored or processed for disposal. 
 
Pet Crematory.  An Industrial use where land and buildings are used for the preparation 
and processing of deceased domestic animals. 
 
Air Cargo Terminals.  An Industrial use where land and buildings are used for the storage 
of airplanes, airplane cargo or other facilities associated with air transportation or air 
shipping. 
 
Page 24 of 31 
 
Aircraft Sales, Repair, Service, Storage .  An Industrial use where land and buildings are 
used for keeping inventory related to aircraft sales or for the storage and maintenance of 
aircraft. 
 
Railroad Yards and Maintenance Buildings.  An Industrial use where land and buildings 
are used for the storage of rail cars, rail cargo or other facilities associated with rail 
transportation or rail shipping. 
 
g. Public Service Uses. The Public Service use category is for businesses or government entities 
engaged providing technical and operational services that serve the general public and 
community interest to enhance general health, safety, welfare and convenience for landowners 
and residents, and that serve interests beyond the specific site or facility. This category is based 
on the need of different kinds and classes of buildings in close proximity with other uses, which 
can be buffered from the adjacent areas they serve with the appropriate site design, or 
alternatively which can be located in special purpose districts and still serve the public interest. 
 
Commercial or Public Parking Facility .  A Public Service use where land and buildings 
are used for hourly or daily parking of passenger vehicles that serves other uses, sites and 
buildings in the vicinity. The parking services may be owned by the government or owned 
and operated as a business. 
 
Government Facility.  A facility or area of land controlled and/or operated by a government 
entity to aid in providing a service to the citizens under the jurisdiction of that entity. 
 
Military.  A Public Service use where land and buildings are used for operations of the 
United States Armed Forces. 
 
Recycling Services.  A Public Service use where land and buildings are used for the public 
drop-off, storage, and packaging of recyclable materials. Processing may occur on site, or 
materials may be shipped to other industrial sites for further processing. 
 
Transportation Facilities .  A Public Service use engaged in the business of offering 
transportation services to the public, such as airport terminals, bus stations, train stations, 
taxi stations, parking garages, bicycle depots or similar facilities for common storage 
personal vehicles or common boarding of public vehicles. 
 
Utility Stations.  A Public Service use where land is used for the concentrated location of 
fixed equipment necessary to serve adjacent areas with utility service, including other 
accessory buildings and facilities essential to the operation of the equipment. 
 
h. Agriculture Uses. The Agriculture use category is for uses that are commonly associated with 
an agrarian or rustic lifestyle, and which demand little or no public infrastructure or services. 
 
General Agriculture.  The production of grain, animals, food and fiber; the science and art 
of farming and ranching; and the work of cultivating the soil, producing crops and raising 
livestock. General Agriculture specifically excludes concentrated feeding operations where 
Page 25 of 31 
 
swine are confined, fed and maintained for 45 consecutive days or more in any 12 -month 
period. 
 
Limited Agriculture.  The production of grain, animals, food and fiber on a small scale 
where any impacts on potential adjacent property from storage, operations, and equipment 
can be internalized into the site or buffered from abutting areas, typically not occurring on 
lots or parcels larger than 10 acres. 
 
Agricultural Equipment and Supply.  An Agriculture use where the land and buildings are 
used for retail sales of equipment and materials used for agricultural-related land uses, and 
accessory servicing of agriculture equipment. 
 
Agriculture Product Sales / Farmers Market.  An Agriculture use where land and buildings 
are used for the retail sale of agricultural products and operated without any additional or 
permanent site facilities than are otherwise associated with agriculture use. Road side 
stands, truck sales, or barn sa les are examples of such uses, however the intensity and 
frequency of such sales shall be so that no additional parking, roads, structures, 
warehouses, or other storage facilities are necessary on the site. 
 
Arenas and Show Barns .  An Agriculture use where the land and buildings are used for 
show or sale of livestock, and where the public can attend these and other related activities. 
 
Commercial Stables .  An Agriculture use where land and buildings are used for the 
business of boarding horses, donkeys, mules, burros, llamas or other similar equine 
animals. 
 
Nurseries, Landscaping.  An Agriculture use to grow plants of any kind for transplanting 
to another location or for sale as live plants rather than as crops, including the sale of related 
equipment and supplies. 
 
Section 5.  That Section 5.1.4 of the UDC is amended to read as shown in Attachment A 
which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. 
 
Section 6.  That Section 5.7.10 of the UDC is amended to read as follows: 
 
5.7.10 [RESERVED] Recreational Vehicle Parks and Campgrounds 
 
In districts where recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds are allowed, they shall meet the 
following standards in addition to all other lot and building standards for the district. 
 
a. All property lines and street frontages shall have a level 2 landscape buffer as specified in UDC 
6.3.5.b. 
  
b. Accessory uses such as laundry buildings, service retail stores, manager's offices, storage 
buildings, caretaker facilities, cabins, and other uses common with recreational vehicle parks 
and campgrounds shall be permitted. 
  
Page 26 of 31 
 
c. A network of vehicular accessways shall be provided and individual sites shall not have direct 
access to a public street. All accessways shall be paved with either asphalt, concrete, permeable 
pavers, or a combination thereof. Accessways shall not encroach  into a required landscape 
buffer, except as necessary to provide access to the site. 
  
d. A developed outdoor recreational area(s) shall be provided and shall be at least 10% of the 
gross development area or 4,500 square feet, whichever is greater. Outdoor recreational spaces 
shall be comprised of playgrounds, picnic areas, trails, sports facilities, and similar amenities. 
  
e. One fenced pet area(s) per acre of developed site shall be provided and shall be at least 700 
square feet in area. 
  
f. At least one (1) canopy tree within fifteen (15) feet of each space shall be provided. 
  
g. Designated areas for tents or cabins shall provide a minimum campsite area of five hundred 
(500) square feet per tent or cabin. Campsite areas may be consolidated when tents or cabins 
are clustered, provided that the required square footage per unit is mai ntained, and the area is 
exclusive of drive aisles, parking spaces, or common access ways. 
  
h. No recreational vehicle occupying any recreational vehicle space shall have permanent 
additions of any kind. Skirting of recreational vehicles is permissible provided such skirting 
shall not attach the recreational vehicles permanently to the ground. 
  
i. Each recreational vehicle space shall have water and sewer service available for connection at 
the individual recreational vehicle site. 
  
j. No recreational vehicle space shall be occupied by a recreational vehicle classified as a 
nuisance pursuant to section 8.60.080 of municipal code. 
  
k. Spaces occupied for more than one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days shall: 
1. Be permitted only within designated long-term stay areas of the recreational vehicle park, 
2. Include one detached individual storage structure per space, not exceeding 160 square feet 
in floor area. All storage structures shall be approved in conjunction with a site plan and 
designed with consistent materials, colors, and architectural elements to ensure a unified 
appearance 
3. Only be occupied by units that:  
i. Are skirted with materials designed for weather protection and visual uniformity, 
ii. Are self-contained units, 
iii. Are manufactured within the last 20 years, 
iv. Display a valid Recreation Vehicle Industry Association (RVIA) certification seal 
verifying compliance with the applicable ANSI or HUD recreational vehicle 
construction standards in effect at the time of manufacture, 
v. Do not be occupied by a recreational vehicle classified as a nuisance pursuant to section 
8.60.080 of municipal code, and 
vi. Do not have permanent additions, such as room extensions, porches, or attached 
garages or carports 
 
Page 27 of 31 
 
l. Recreational vehicle parks not meeting the definition of temporary use per this Code shall 
comply with the development standards of this section. 
 
Section 7.  That Section 5.8.2 of the UDC is amended to read as follows: 
 
5.8.2 Manufactured Homes and Parks 
 
a. Generally.  Housing that meets the definition of a manufactured home shall be permitted in 
any residential district provided it meets the specific standards of this section, the standards for 
that district and all other applicable construction standards. 
 
b. General Standards.  Manufactured housing parks shall be permitted only as a use requiring 
public hearing in any residential district or as a planned unit development, and shall meet all 
other applicable requirements of the zoning district.  
1. Any property to be used as a manufactured housing park shall comply with the minimum 
standards governing the parks as adopted and maintained by the Department of Public 
Health for the state of Wyoming and only after certification of compliance and a permit  
have been duly issued. 
2. Any property to be developed as a manufactured housing park shall be platted as required 
by the subdivision regulations for the City.  
3. Each house placed in a park or portion of a park developed after the adoption of this code 
shall have a data plate affixed to it.  
4. Skirting. All houses shall be skirted with a rigid material. Skirting shall be in place within 
30 days after the house is set on the space. Skirting shall provide entry access.  
5. Utilities. All spaces in the park shall be provided with utilities meeting standards specified 
by City, board of public utilities and state regulations and inspected for compliance with 
those regulations. Each house shall be properly connected to those utilities.  
6. Common Storage Areas. Areas within the park for the storage of boats, trailers, campers 
and recreational vehicles shall be provided. They shall be screened from adjacent 
residential properties.  
7. Dimensional Standards. All parks and spaces within parks shall meet the following 
dimensional standards. Each unit space within the park shall have its boundaries clearly 
delineated. Accessory structures excluding carports, or any other structure that is o pen on 
two or more sides, shall meet these standards. 
Page 28 of 31 
 
 
c. Roadway Standards .  Park roadways shall be paved and meet the following dimensional 
standards:  
 
d. Walkways, lighting and parking standards.  
1. Walkways. All houses shall be connected to the adjacent park roadway via a hard-surfaced 
walkway. The vehicle parking pad may be used as a portion of this walkway. Hard-surfaced 
walkways shall be provided within the park roadway as follows:  
(a) Minor park roadways (roadways serving 25 units or less) shall have a walkway on at 
least one side of the park roadway.  
(b) Major park roadways (roadways serving more than 25 units) shall have a walkway on 
both sides of the park roadway. 

Page 29 of 31 
 
2. Lighting. All park roadways and walkways shall be adequately lit to provide for the safety 
of park residents.  
3. Parking. Two off-street parking stalls shall be provided per unit space. 
e. Recreation Space. For the purposes of this section, “recreation space” is defined as an area 
of land that is available to park residents for recreational activities. It does not include 
roadways, storage areas or yards. For parks with more than 25 spaces, or additions to those 
parks, recreation space shall be provided as follows:  
 
 
f. Existing Manufactured Home and Manufactured Home Parks.  An existing house or park 
that does not meet the definition of a manufactured home or park as outlined in this Title shall 
be deemed to be a nonconforming use without regard to the standards of the district in which 
it is located. The nonconforming use may  be continued provided that the continued use does 
not constitute a hazard to health and is not a public nuisance. The nonconforming use shall not 
be extended, enlarged, or changed unless the entire home or park is brought into compliance 
with current regulations for manufactured homes or new  manufactured home parks. For a 
manufactured home park, the procedures shall be the same as those for establishing a 
manufactured home park in that district. In addition to the information and application for the 
district, the request shall also contain the following information:   
1. A draft written agreement from the applicant to insure that the improvements to the new 
area and the improvements to the existing area will be provided; 
2. A specific time schedule for all the improvements;  
3. A specific list of exceptions to the standards for new parks that cannot or will not be met 
when all improvements specified in the agreement are provided. Expansion of the park and 
the installation of improvements will not be initiated until the agreement and the other 
requirements of the district have been approved. 
 
g. Travel Trailers and Recreational Vehicles. Travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall not 
be installed in manufactured housing parks or subdivisions as a dwelling unit. The use of travel 
trailers and recreational vehicles shall be allowed only in recreational vehicle parks, 
campgrounds, mobile home parks or combined manufactured housing parks, all licensed by 
the city/county health departmentas defined in the state of Wyoming Mobile Home Park and 
Campground regulations. 
 
h. Manufactured Homes on Single Platted Properties or Tracts . Manufactured homes are 
permitted on any platted residential property or tract subject to the provisions of this section. 
This section does not apply to homes placed in manufactured home parks. Homes to be placed 
on a property or tract shall meet the following requirements: 
1. The home shall be sited in such a fashion that it meets all the requirements of the district 
in which it is located. The home shall have the delivery system removed. 

Page 30 of 31 
 
2. The home shall be installed on a permanent foundation constructed of masonry, concrete 
or other approved material and shall comply with the building code. The foundation system 
shall be designed and constructed to sustain, within the stress limitations spe cified in the 
building code, all loads specified in the building code. The installation instructions as 
provided by the manufacturer of the manufactured home shall be used to determine 
permissible points of support for vertical loads and points of attachme nt for anchorage 
systems used to resist horizontal and uplift forces. The foundation system design shall be 
stamped and signed by a Wyoming licensed professional engineer. 
3. The house shall be built to the current HUD code for this zone as referenced in the federal 
manufactured housing construction and safety standards. Skirting and permanent perimeter 
enclosures shall be installed. Skirting shall be of material suitable for exterior exposure and 
contact with the ground. Permanent perimeter enclosures shall be constructed of materials 
as required by the building code for regular foundation construction. Skirting shall be 
installed in accordance with the skirting manufacturer’s installation instructions. Skirting 
shall be adequately secured to assure stability, to minimize vibration and susceptibility to 
wind damage, and to compensate for possible frost heave. 
4. Where retaining walls are used as a permanent perimeter enclosure, they shall resist the 
lateral displacements of soil or other materials and shall conform to the building code as 
specified for foundation walls. Retaining walls and foundation walls shall b e constructed 
of approved treated wood, concrete, masonry or other approved materials or combination 
of materials as for foundations as specified in the building code. Siding materials shall 
extend below the top of the exterior of the retaining or foundation wall or the joint between 
siding and enclosure wall shall be flashed in accordance with the building code. 
5. The structure shall have a pitched roof, with a slope of not less than a nominal three inch 
vertical rise for each twelve (12) inches of horizontal run. Roof material shall consist of 
nonreflective material customarily used for conventional dwellings inclu ding but not 
limited to fiberglass shingles, composition shingles or tile material. Roof materials shall 
not include flat or corrugated sheet metal, except for manufactured metal roof panels. 
6. The structure shall have a roof overhang of not less than eight inches measured from the 
vertical side of the home. 
7. The structure shall have siding material consisting of wood or wood products, stucco, brick, 
rock, horizontal lap steel or aluminum or horizontal lap vinyl.  
8. The structure shall be a minimum of 24’ along the widest part of the structure’s shortest 
axis. 
9. The structure shall be constructed in accordance with the most recent version of the HUD 
code. However, no home will be permitted under this section if it was built prior to the year 
2000. 
 
Section 8.  Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance are 
severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is declared 
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such declaration shall not affect any of the remainin g 
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases. 
 
Page 31 of 31 
 
Section 9.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon approval and publication. 
 
 
FIRST READING:   ____________________________________ 
 
SECOND READING:  ____________________________________ 
 
THIRD AND FINAL READING: ____________________________________ 
 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
PATRICK COLLINS, MAYOR 
 
 
(SEAL) 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________________ 
KYLIE SODEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
Published:_____________________ 
Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
 
 
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 4
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
P = Use permitted by right A = use per mitted after administrative review  C = U se permitted after conditional discretionary review  
(blank = prohibited use)
tAble 5-1:  Zoning district uses
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Residential Uses
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Detached Dwelling P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Semi-attached Dwelling (“Duplex”) P P P P P P P P P P
Attached Dwelling (“Townhouse”) P P P P P P P P
Cottage Lots C C C C P P P P P P
Group Housing C C C C C C C C C C C C C C P
Dormitories C A P P P P
Multi-dwelling Building (“Apartment”) C P
P/C P C
P/C P P P
Live/Work C P C A P P P P P P C P
Mixed-use Dwelling P P P P P P C P
Accessory Dwelling A A A A A A A A A A A A P
Urban Loft Building C P C C C P P
Manufactured housing parks C C C C P
Civic Uses
Neighborhood Assembly (<350 maximum occupancy) C C C C C C A A A A A P C C A A A C P
Community Assembly (350  - 1000  maximum occupancy) A A P C C A A A C P
Cemeteries A A A P C C A A A P
Primary and secondary schools C C C C C C C C C A A P P A A A C P
Educational facilities P P P A A C P
Community Athletic Field C C C C C C A A P A A A P P
Developed Athletic Field or Stadium C C C C C P P
Service Uses
Service Business - Limited P P P A P P P P
Service Business - General C P P C C P P
Assisted Living / Nursing Home C C C C C A C C C C C P P P P P
Animal Care - Kennel P C P P P P
Animal Care – Hospital / Clinic C C C P C C P
Family Child Care Home (FCCH) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Family Child Care Center (FCCC) A A A A A A A A A P P P A P P P
Child Care Center (CCC) A C A C C C C C C P P P C P P P P
Emergency Shelter P C
Entertainment, Indoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C P P P A C P P P P                               
Attachment A: Page 1 of 3
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 5
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  Zoning district uses
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Services Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Entertainment, Outdoor Recreation Facility C C C C C C C C C C C A C C A C C C P P
Entertainment, Venue (1000+ maximum occupancy) C C C A A C A C C P P
Entertainment, Amusement, Recreation—Other C C C C P C C C C C C P
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast P A A C C C C A P P P P P
Lodging, Hotel / Motel P P P P P P
Campground C C C P C P
Recreational Vehical Park C C C P C P
Medical Care, Clinic and Office P P P C P P P P
Medical Care, Hospital P P P P
Mini Storage C C P C P P C C P
Storage, Yard C P C P
Employment Uses P
Home occupations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Office – Limited (<3,500) C A C A P P P P P P P P P P
Office – general (3,500 – 20K) C C P P P P A P P P P
Office – Major Office Complex (>20K) P P P P P P P P
Commercial Uses
Convenience Retail / Corner Store (<2k) P P P P A P P P P
Neighborhood Retail (2K - 5K) P P P P A P P P P
General Retail (5K -  25K) P P P P A P P
Large-scale Retail (25K - 100K) P P P P C P P
Warehouse Retail (> 100K) P P P P P P
Grocery Store <45K P P P P P P P P
Supermarket  > 45K P P P P C P P
Outdoor Sales, Limited A P A A A A C P
Outdoor Sales, Seasonal C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales, Event or Display Area C A C C C C C P
Outdoor Sales C C C C C P
Bars and liquor stores C C P A C C P P
Automobile Service Repair C P C P P C C P P
Automobile Service Station - Limited C P C P P C C P P P
Automobile Service Station - General P C P P C P P
Automobile Service Station – Large-scale C C P P P
Attachment A: Page 2 of 3
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions
Article 5
Zoning regulAtions 5.1     generA l Provisions5.1     generA l Provisions
5 - 6
Cheyenne Unified Development Code
tAble 5-1:  Zoning district uses
Zoning districts 
AG
AR
RR
LR
MR
HR
NR-1
NR-2
NR-3
NB
CB
CBD
LI
HI
P
MUR
MUB
MUE
BP
AD
SS
PUD
M
AHR
CHR
  cAtegory of uses / sPecific uses
Commercial Uses (cont.)
Planned District - uses subject to a development plan
Federal Property - No City authority over uses
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Overlay District - uses subject to base zoning district
Food Service – Limited (under 2K) P P P P P P P P P
Food Service – General (2K – 4K) C P P P P P P P
Food Service – Large-scale (over 4k) P P P P P P
Industrial Uses
Data Center C C C P P C P P
Limited Industrial A A P P P P A P P P P
Moderate Industrial C P P C P P P
General Industrial C P P C
Industrial C C C
Limited Outdoor Storage P P C A P C
Outdoor Storage C P C C
Impoundment Yards P P C C C
Salvage yards C C C
Junk yards C C
Air cargo terminals P C
Aircraft sales, repair, service, storage and relating uses P C
Railroad yards and maintenance buildings P P P C
Public Service Uses
Commercial and Public Parking Facility P P P P P P
Government Facility P P P P P P P P P P P P
Military P P
Recycling Services C P P C C C P
Transportation facilities C P P P P P P
Utility Stations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A P A P
Agriculture Uses
General Agriculture P P P
Limited Agriculture P P P P
Agricultural equipment or product sales C P
Commercial stables, arenas, and show barns C C P
Nurseries, landscaping P P C P P C P
Attachment A: Page 3 of 3
PLTA-25-2   October 6, 2025 
Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION  
OCTOBER 6, 2025 
STAFF REPORT  
 
REQUEST:  A text amendment amending the Unified Development Code to define recreational 
vehicle parks and campgrounds, designate zone districts for their operation, create 
specific use standards for recreational vehicle parks campgrounds, and revise 
manufactured home and parks regulations as necessary 
CASE NUMBER:  PLTA-25-2 
PREPARED BY: Charles W. Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director, Planning and 
Development Department 
 
 
RECOMMENDED MOTION:  
 
Move to recommend the Governing Body approve text amendments amending sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 
5.1.4, 5.7.10, 5.8.2  of the Unified Development Code to define Recreational Vehicle Parks and 
Campgrounds, designate zone districts for their operation, create specific use standards for Recreational 
Vehicle Parks Campgrounds, and revise Manufactured Home and Parks Regulations as necessary  as 
outlined in this staff report, noting the requests meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.     
 
 
STAFF UPDATE:  
 
At the September 15, 2025, meeting there was discussion regarding the recreational vehicle park and 
campground development standards, specifically, the following: 
1. Clarifying that the one-acre minimum lot area to be allowed be comprised of camping areas and 
recreational vehicle spaces.  
2. Clarification that water and sewer requirements for short term and long-term recreational vehicle 
spaces. 
3. Ensuring that the junk and nuisance provisions of municipal code applied to short- and long-term 
recreational vehicle sites.   
4. Grammatical corrections regarding spaces occupied for more than 180 days 
 
Discussion centered around the development standards proposed in UDC section 5.7.10. Below are 
proposed modifications to the prior proposed language. Staff has included a “Clean” version and “Track 
Changes” detailing the modified standards. The September 1 5, 2025, staff report is attached,  and the 
other proposed ordinance elements  (Definitions, permissibility, and modification to UDC 5.8.2 ) remain 
unchanged.   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
PLTA-25-2   October 6, 2025 
PROPOSED MODIFICATION: 
 
Clean Version: 
 
Below is how the entirety of the section will read with all proposed changes incorporated. A track changes 
version follows.  
 
“5.7.10 Recreational Vehicle Parks and Campgrounds 
In districts where recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds are allowed, they shall meet the 
following standards in addition to all other lot and building standards for the district. 
 
a. The minimum lot area shall be one (1) acre and may be comprised of campground 
facilities, recreational vehicle park facilities, or a combination thereof. 
b. All property lines and street frontages shall have a level 2 landscape buffer as specified in 
UDC 6.3.5.b.  
c. Accessory uses such as laundry buildings, service retail stores, manager's offices, storage 
buildings, caretaker facilities, cabins, and other uses common with recreational vehicle 
parks and campgrounds shall be permitted.  
d. A network of vehicular accessways shall be provided and individual sites shall not have 
direct access to a public street. All accessways shall be paved with either asphalt, 
concrete, permeable pavers, or a combination thereof. Accessways shall not encroach  
into a required landscape buffer, except as necessary to provide access to the site.   
e. A developed outdoor recreational area(s) shall be provided and shall be at least 10% of 
the gross development area or 4,500 square feet, whichever is greater. Outdoor 
recreational spaces shall be comprised of playgrounds, picnic areas, trails, sports facilities, 
and similar amenities. 
f. One fenced pet area(s) per acre of developed site shall be provided and shall be at least 
700 square feet in area.  
g. At least one (1) canopy tree within fifteen (15) feet of each space shall be provided.  
h. Designated areas for tents or cabins shall provide a minimum campsite area of five 
hundred (500) square feet per tent or cabin. Campsite areas may be consolidated when 
tents or cabins are clustered, provided that the required square footage per unit is 
maintained, and the area is exclusive of drive aisles, parking spaces, or common access 
ways.  
i. No recreational vehicle occupying any recreational vehicle space shall have permanent 
additions of any kind. Skirting of recreational vehicles is permissible provided such skirting 
shall not attach the recreational vehicles permanently to the ground. 
j. No recreational vehicle space shall  be occupied by a recreational vehicle classified as a 
nuisance pursuant to section 8.60.080 of municipal code,  
k. Each recreational vehicle space shall have water and sewer service available for 
connection at the individual recreational vehicle site, 
l. Spaces occupied for more than one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days shall: 
1. only be permitted only within designated long-term stay areas of the recreational 
vehicle park, 
2. include one detached individual storage structure per space, not exceeding 160 
square feet in floor area. All storage structures shall be approved in conjunction 
with a site plan and designed with consistent materials, colors, and architectural 
elements to ensure a unified appearance. 
3. only be occupied by units that: 
PLTA-25-2   October 6, 2025 
i. are skirted with materials designed for weather protection and visual 
uniformity, 
ii. are self-contained units, 
iii. are manufactured within the last 20 years, 
iv. display a valid Recreation Vehicle Industry Association (RVIA) certification 
seal verifying compliance with the applicable ANSI or HUD recreational 
vehicle construction standards in effect at the time of manufacture, and 
v. do not have permanent additions, such as room extensions, porches, or 
attached garages or carports. 
m. Recreational vehicle parks not meeting the definition of temporary use per this Code shall 
comply with the development standards of this section.”   
 
Detailed Tracked Changes Version: 
 
Below is a detailed track changes version of the amendments based on discussion at the September 15, 
2025, meeting clarifying all proposed changes based on prior discussion.    
 
1. The minimum lot area shall be one (1) acre  and may be comprised of campground facilities, 
recreational vehicle park facilities, or a combination thereof. 
 
This requires the area of the park to be a minimum of one-acre in size. This clarifies that the park can 
be one-acre in size and a mixture of camping and recreational vehicle sites.  
 
2. All property lines and street frontages shall have a level 2 landscape buffer as specified in UDC 6.3.5.b.  
 
A level 2 buffer is a 15’ wide area planting area with the following landscape options:  
• Two deciduous shade or six-foot evergreen trees for each 50 linear feet of buffer or 
• One deciduous shade or six-foot evergreen tree and 2 ornamental trees for each 50 linear feet of 
buffer; plus 3 shrubs for every 10 linear feet of buffer 
 
3. Accessory uses such as laundry buildings, service retail stores, manager's offices, storage buildings, 
caretaker facilities, cabins, and other uses common with recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds 
shall be permitted.  
 
This provision clarifies that accessory uses common to a campground and recreational vehicle park 
are permitted as accessory uses. Accessory uses must be subordinate to the use of the land as a 
recreational vehicle park or campground.   
 
4. A network of vehicular accessways shall be provided and individual sites shall not have direct access 
to a public street. All accessways shall be paved with either asphalt, concrete, permeable pavers, or a 
combination thereof. Accessways shall not encroach  into a required landscape buffer, except as 
necessary to provide access to the site. 
 
CLCPH requires that parks have all- weather surfacing for operation and licensing. Thei provision 
requires paving which improves drainage, reduces dust, and increases accessibility within the park 
Individual spaces do not require paving. 
   
5. A developed outdoor recreational area(s) shall be provided and shall be at least 10% of the gross 
development area or 4,500 square feet, whichever is greater. Outdoor r ecreational spaces shall be 
comprised of playgrounds, picnic areas, trails, sports facilities, and similar amenities.  
PLTA-25-2   October 6, 2025 
 
This requires that common open space must be provided as part of the development. For a one-acre 
recreational vehicle park recreation facilities could be comprised of a playground sport court, 
community gathering space, or picnic area. 
 
6. One fenced pet area(s) per acre of developed site shall be provided and shall be at least 700 square 
feet in area.  
 
This requires one pet area per acre. Pursuant to UDC 1.4.2.f, any fractional result shall be rounded up 
to the next consecutive whole number (e.g.: 1.2 rounds up to 2). 
 
7. At least one (1) canopy tree within fifteen (15) feet of each space shall be provided.  
 
This provision is intended to establish a tree canopy in the park to provide shade for users. These are 
not in addition to the general landscaping standards and count towards internal landscaping area.   
 
8. Designated areas for tents or cabins shall provide a minimum campsite area of five hundred (500) 
square feet per tent or cabin. Campsite areas may be consolidated when tents or cabins are clustered, 
provided that the required square footage per unit is mai ntained, and the area is exclusive of drive 
aisles, parking spaces, or common access ways.  
 
This section is intended to provide adequate spacing and campsite area per space. Provisions have 
been made to allow for clustering in group camping or cabin areas.   
 
9. No recreational vehicle occupying any recreational vehicle space shall have permanent additions of 
any kind. Skirting of recreational vehicles is permissible provided such skirting shall not attach the 
recreational vehicles permanently to the ground. 
 
This section prohibits any permanent additions from being constructed on a space. Likewise, it 
prohibits skirting from being permanent skirting that affixes a vehicle to the ground.  
 
10. No recreational vehicle space shall not be occupied by a recreational vehicle classified as a nuisance 
pursuant to section 8.60.080 of municipal code. 
 
This subsection has been added to not allow any junk or nuisance vehicles to occupy a short- or long-
term recreational vehicle sites. This was relocated from the long-term stay section, 12 below.      
 
11.  Each recreational vehicle space shall have water and sewer service available for connection at the 
individual recreational vehicle site 
 
This subsection has been added and makes the water and sewer connection requirement applicable 
to all recreational vehicle sites, not just long -term stay. This was relocated from the long -term stay 
section, section 12, below.     
 
12. Spaces occupation occupied for more than one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days shall: 
a. only be permitted only within designated long-term stay areas of the recreational vehicle park, 
b. include one detached individual storage structure per space, not exceeding 160 square feet in 
floor area. All storage structures shall be approved in conjunction with a site plan and designed 
with consistent materials, colors, and architectural elements to ensure a unified appearance. 
c. only be occupied by units that: 
PLTA-25-2   October 6, 2025 
b.i. be are skirted with materials designed for weather protection and visual uniformity, 
c.ii. be occupied only byare self-contained units, 
d.iii. be are manufactured within the last 20 years, 
e.iv. display a valid Recreation Vehicle Industry Association (RVIA) certification seal 
verifying compliance with the applicable ANSI or HUD recreational vehicle 
construction standards in effect at the time of manufacture, 
f. no t be occupied by a recreational vehicle classified as a nuisance pursuant to section 8.60.080 
of municipal code, and 
g.v. do not have permanent additions, such as room extensions, porches, or attached 
garages or carports. 
 
This section has been modified to read better, clarify site requirements and occupation requirements, 
and reorder for readability (relocate storage units to this list)  
 
13. Recreational vehicle spaces designated for long-term occupancy shall include one detached individual 
storage structure per space, not exceeding 160 square feet in floor area. All storage structures shall 
be approved in conjunction with a site plan and designed with consistent materials, colors, and 
architectural elements to ensure a unified appearance. 
 
This has been relocated to the long-term stay section, section 12, above.     
 
14.13. Recreational vehicle parks not meeting the definition of temporary use per this Code shall comply 
with the development standards of this section. 
 
This clarifies that facilities proposed for periods exceeding 14 -days are considered permanent uses 
and require conformance with the development standards. City/County Health does license and 
inspect all temporary and permanent facilities.   
 
INFORMATION PROVIDED SEPTEMBER 15, 2025, MEETING THAT REMAINS UNCHANGED: 
 
New definitions to be inserted in subsection 1.4.3, Defined Terms 
 
Recreational Vehicle (RV). A vehicle or unit primarily designed for human habitation for recreation 
or travel, which may include a motor home, camper, travel trailer, or park model recreational 
vehicle. 
 
Self-Contained Unit. A recreational vehicle equipped with its own water supply, sanitary facilities, 
and wastewater containment, capable of independent habitation without reliance on shared 
utilities, except for electrical or water hookups. 
 
New definition to be added to 1.4.4.a, Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings, Residential Uses 
 
Manufactured Home Park. See Manufactured Housing Park. 
 
Amendment to existing definition in 1.4.4.a, Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings, Residential Uses 
 
Manufactured housing parks. An area of land under one fee ownership, where designated spaces 
for manufactured homes are rented for use as a principal dwelling unit, and which may provide 
associated facilities for common use. 
 
PLTA-25-2   October 6, 2025 
 
New definitions to be inserted in subsection 1.4.4.c, Service Uses 
 
Campground. A Service Use accommodating overnight stays in tents, cabins, or other non -
motorized shelters.  
 
Combined Manufactured Housing Park.  A Residential Use comprised of a manufactured housing 
park that, in addition to accommodating manufactured homes, has been licensed and has 
maintained a license, by the city/county health department to allow recreational vehicles to 
occupy independent spaces on the same site. Such facilities are recognized as nonconforming 
uses and may not be established in the City.  
 
Recreational Vehicle Park.  A Service Use providing accommodations for recreational vehicles, 
travel trailers, motor homes, dependent travel units, and park model recreational vehicles. 
 
Permissible Locations (Use Table) 
 
These uses are proposed in several zoning districts. They would be allowed by right in the LI (Light 
Industrial) and SS (Support Services) districts and would require conditional use approval in the AG 
(Agriculture), AR (Agricultural Residential), CB (Community Business), and BP (Business Park) districts. The 
conditional use process allows an additional level of review, including public comment, to ensure that 
adequate measures have been taken to mitigate potential affects to nearby properties . Staff also 
recommends allowing them as conditional uses in the CB district to give visitors convenient access to 
nearby shopping, dining, and entertainment. 
 
Recreational Vehicle Park:    
Permitted: LI (Light Industrial), SS (Support Services)  
Conditional Use: AG (Agriculture), AR (Agricultural Residential), CB (Community Business), 
BP (Business Park) 
 
Campground: 
Permitted: LI (Light Industrial), SS (Support Services)  
Conditional Use: AG (Agriculture), AR (Agricultural Residential), CB (Community Business), 
BP (Business Park) 
 
Modification to UDC 5.8.2, Manufactured Home Parks  
 
This amendment cleans up language that has been rolled into the UDC from previous iterations of 
municipal code. This terminology has not been updated with the UDC and was carried over primarily from 
1982 and 1988 versions of the municipal code. The present section references an obsolete document - 
the State of Wyoming Mobile Home Park and Campground regulations . This amendment reflects the 
CLCPH licensing requirements and the present licensing of combined manufactured housing parks. Several 
combined manufactured housing parks exist within City limits today.    
  
Travel Trailers and Recreational Vehicles.  Travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall not be 
installed in manufactured housing parks or subdivisions as a dwelling unit. The use of travel 
trailers and recreational vehicles shall be allowed only in recreational vehicle parks,  
campgrounds, or mobile home parks or combined manufactured housing parks, all licensed by 
the city/county health department  as defined in the state of Wyoming Mobile Home Park and 
Campground regulations. 
PLTA-25-2   October 6, 2025 
 
REVIEW CRITERIA: 
 
Review of a UDC text amendment shall be measured by the following three (3) criteria of Section 2.4.1.d: 
 
1. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:  
“The amendment is in accordance with general goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, or  
is necessary to address an emerging issue not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan and is not 
inconsistent with the plan.” 
 
The proposed amendment addresses an emerging issue not fully anticipated in the 
Comprehensive Plan, but does align with its general goals and policies, specifically responding to 
community desires and concerns . This change comes after challenges were identified in 
conjunction with discussions surrounding a recent w ork camp proposal where it was identified 
that work camps were viewed as more of a permanent use and provisions for that use did not 
exist. 
 
The Comprehensive Plan promotes “Quality Workforce Housing” per Policy 2.5.C, which states 
that work force housing should be  constructed of durable materials that minimize maintenance 
and will stand the test of time, is designed with architectural details that are functional and 
attractive, and designed with a character and scale that is compatible with the surrounding 
neighborhood. Recreational Vehicle Parks as proposed in this amendment, do uphold this policy.  
 
This proposed text amendment meets this criterion. 
 
2. STATE STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:  
The amendment is consistent with the Wyoming Statutes, and specifically the Municipal Planning 
and Zoning statutes. The following Articles are all listed verbatim from Wyoming State Statute. 
 
WYO 15-1-601. The governing body of any city or town, by ordinance, may: 
 
(d) All regulations shall be made: 
(i) In accordance with a comprehensive plan and designed to: 
(A) Lessen congestion in the streets; 
(B) Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; 
(C) Promote health and general welfare; 
(D) Provide adequate light and air; 
(E) Prevent the overcrowding of land; 
(F) Avoid undue concentration of population; and 
(G) Facilitate adequate provisions for transportation, water, 
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements. 
 
Assessment: This amendment proposes  amending the zoning code in accordance with the 
comprehensive plan and is in accordance with the purposes of state statute.  
 
3. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND PUBLIC WELFARE:  
“The amendment promotes the general health, safety and public welfare.” 
 
PLTA-25-2   October 6, 2025 
This amendment provides for a lodging option for visitors and a residential option for people and 
families who desire to live in these types of facilities for extended periods of time . These parks 
can provide economic benefits to the City.    
 
 
CONCLUSION:  
 
Staff concludes that this text amendment meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d. 
 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:  
 
Staff recommends approval of text amendments amending sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 5.1.4, 5.7.10, 5.8.2  of 
the Unified Development Code to define Recreational Vehicle Parks and Campgrounds, designate zone 
districts for their operation, create specific use standards for Recreational Vehicle Parks Campgrounds, 
and revise Manufactured Home and Parks Regulations as necessary as outlined in this staff report, noting 
the requests meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
 
ATTACHMENTS: 
 
1. September 15, 2025, Staff Report and Attachment 
PLTA-25-2   September 15, 2025 
Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION  
September 15, 2025 
STAFF REPORT  
 
REQUEST:  A text amendment amending the Unified Development Code to define recreational 
vehicle parks and campgrounds, designate zone districts for their operation, create 
specific use standards for recreational vehicle parks campgrounds, and revise 
manufactured home and parks regulations as necessary 
CASE NUMBER:  PLTA-25-2 
PREPARED BY: Charles W. Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director, Planning and 
Development Department 
 
 
RECOMMENDED MOTION:  
 
Move to recommend the Governing Body approve text amendments amending sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 
5.1.4, 5.7.10, 5.8.2   of the Unified Development Code to define Recreational Vehicle Parks and 
Campgrounds, designate zone districts for their operation, create specific use standards for Recreational 
Vehicle Parks Campgrounds, and revise Manufactured Home and Parks Regulations as necessary  as 
outlined in this staff report, noting the requests meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.     
 
 
BACKGROUND: 
 
The City’s Unified Development Code (UDC) was adopted by the Governing Body on January 23, 2012, by 
Ordinance Number 3943 with an effective  date of April 30, 2012.  The UDC is the regulatory document 
carrying out the vision of PlanCheyenne and is reviewed annually pursuant to UDC 1.1.7 [Annual Review 
Requirement] to determine if any particular standard or regulation is timely, relevant and adequately 
addresses current market conditions. In addition to the annual review, the Planning and Development 
Director and City Engineer are authorized under UDC 2.4.1.b.3 to bring forward text amendments on their 
own initiative.  
 
The proposed amendment  is being made in follow -up to P LTA-25-1 which remove the term and 
permissibility of “Work Camps” from the Code which prohibited their establishment within the City limits. 
During this discussion it was noted that permanent recreational vehicle and campground regulations did 
not exist in City zoning and rules and regulations were needed. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
PLTA-25-2   September 15, 2025 
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS: 
This amendment modifies several sections of the UDC and generally addresses the following  four 
components:  
1. Creation of definitions and modification of existing definitions related to recreational vehicles and 
campgrounds. 
2. Amending the Use table to set the permissibility of recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds. 
3. Modification to existing UDC 5.8.2, Manufactured Home Parks. 
4. Creating development standards for recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds.   
 
These amendments are not intended to allow temporary facilities or “work camps,” but are intended to 
enable permanent facilities to be constructed . Cheyenne Laramie County Public Health (CLCPH)  license 
and inspect camping facilities annually through their Campground Program. The 2009 Cheyenne – Laramie 
County Campground Regulations are available online on their website and are also attached to this staff 
report.  
 
As proposed in this amendment , and when considering the Campground Regulations of CLCPH, a 
recreational vehicle park developed on a relatively square one-acre parcel of land (approximately 228’ x 
191’) could result in a recreational vehicle park comprised of approximately 17-18 spaces 20’x 50’ spaces 
accessing an internal 24’ wide drive aisle .  This includes 15 ’ bufferyards on all sides,  allowing for 15’ 
separation from all units per CLCPH licensing rules, one dog run, and 4,500 sq. ft. of recreational area.  
 
Definitions: 
 
This amendment includes adding and modifying UDC definitions as shown below to provide clarification 
related to the amendment. The updated definitions align with nationally accepted standards and 
incorporate CLCPH’s definitions from their Campground Regulations . Undefined terms shall have their 
ordinary and customary meanings unless the context of the word or phrase indicates otherwise. 
 
New definitions to be inserted in subsection 1.4.3, Defined Terms 
 
Recreational Vehicle (RV). A vehicle or unit primarily designed for human habitation for recreation 
or travel, which may include a motor home, camper, travel trailer, or park model recreational 
vehicle. 
 
Self-Contained Unit. A recreational vehicle equipped with its own water supply, sanitary facilities, 
and wastewater containment, capable of independent habitation without reliance on shared 
utilities, except for electrical or water hookups. 
 
New definition to be added to 1.4.4.a, Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings, Residential Uses 
 
Manufactured Home Park. See Manufactured Housing Park. 
 
Amendment to existing definition in 1.4.4.a, Descriptions of Uses of Land and Buildings, Residential Uses 
 
Manufactured housing parks. An area of land under one fee ownership, where designated spaces 
for manufactured homes are rented for use as a principal dwelling unit, and which may provide 
associated facilities for common use. 
 
 
PLTA-25-2   September 15, 2025 
New definitions to be inserted in subsection 1.4.4.c, Service Uses 
 
Campground. A Service Use accommodating overnight stays in tents, cabins, or other non -
motorized shelters.  
 
Combined Manufactured Housing Park.  A Residential Use comprised of a manufactured housing 
park that, in addition to accommodating manufactured homes, has been licensed  and has 
maintained a license,  by the city /county health department to allow recreational vehicles to 
occupy independent spaces on the same site. Such facilities are recognized as nonconforming 
uses and may not be established in the City.  
 
Recreational Vehicle Park . A Service Use providing accommodations for recreational vehicles, 
travel trailers, motor homes, dependent travel units, and park model recreational vehicles. 
 
Permissible Locations (Use Table) 
 
These uses are proposed in several zoning districts. They would be allowed by right in the LI (Light 
Industrial) and SS (Support Services) districts and  would require conditional use approval in the AG 
(Agriculture), AR (Agricultural Residential), CB (Community Business), and BP (Business Park) districts. The 
conditional use process allows an additional level of review, including public comment, to ensure that 
adequate measures have been tak en to mitigate potential affects to nearby properties . Staff also 
recommends allowing them as conditional uses in the CB district to give visitors convenient access to 
nearby shopping, dining, and entertainment. 
 
Recreational Vehicle Park:    
Permitted: LI (Light Industrial), SS (Support Services)  
Conditional Use: AG (Agriculture), AR (Agricultural Residential), CB (Community Business), 
BP (Business Park) 
 
Campground: 
Permitted: LI (Light Industrial), SS (Support Services)  
Conditional Use: AG (Agriculture), AR (Agricultural Residential), CB (Community Business), 
BP (Business Park) 
 
Development Standards (UDC 5.7.10) 
 
This amendment proposes additional development standards that would be reviewed by the City with a 
new facility request. The additional standards are in proposed to be created in a UDC section 5.7.10 and 
are summarized below. 
 
1. The minimum lot area shall be one (1) acre. 
 
This requires the area of the park to be a minimum of one-acre in size.  
 
2. All property lines and street frontages shall have a level 2 landscape buffer as specified in UDC 6.3.5.b.  
 
A level 2 buffer is a 15’ wide area planting area with the following landscape options:  
• Two deciduous shade or six-foot evergreen trees for each 50 linear feet of buffer or 
• One deciduous shade or six-foot evergreen tree and 2 ornamental trees for each 50 linear feet of 
buffer; plus 3 shrubs for every 10 linear feet of buffer 
PLTA-25-2   September 15, 2025 
 
3. Accessory uses such as laundry buildings, service retail stores, manager's offices, storage buildings, 
caretaker facilities, cabins, and other uses common with recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds 
shall be permitted.  
 
This provision clarifies that accessory uses common to  a campground and recreational vehicle park 
are permitted as accessory uses.  Accessory uses must be subordinate to the use of the land as a  
recreational vehicle park or campground.   
 
4. A network of vehicular accessways shall be provided and individual sites shall not have direct access 
to a public street. All accessways shall be paved with either asphalt, concrete, permeable pavers, or a 
combination thereof. Accessways shall not encroach into a required landscape buffer, except as 
necessary to provide access to the site. 
 
CLCPH requires that parks have all -weather surfacing for operation and licensing. Thei provision 
requires paving which improves drainage, reduces dust, and increases accessibility within the park 
Individual spaces do not require paving. 
   
5. A d eveloped outdoor recreational area(s) shall be provide d and shall be at least 10% of the gross 
development area or 4,500 square feet, whichever is greater.  Outdoor recreational spaces shall be 
comprised of playgrounds, picnic areas, trails, sports facilities, and similar amenities.  
 
This requires that common open space must be provided as part of the development. For a one-acre 
recreational vehicle park recreation facilities could be comprised of a playground sport court , 
community gathering space, or picnic area. 
 
6. One fenced pet area(s) per acre of developed site shall be provided and shall  be at least 700 square 
feet in area.  
 
This requires one pet area per acre. Pursuant to UDC 1.4.2.f, any fractional result shall be rounded up 
to the next consecutive whole number (e.g.: 1.2 rounds up to 2). 
 
7. At least one (1) canopy tree within fifteen (15) feet of each space shall be provided.  
 
This provision is intended to establish a tree canopy in the park to provide shade for users. These are 
not in addition to the general landscaping standards and count towards internal landscaping area.   
 
8. Designated areas for tents or cabins shall provide a minimum campsite area of five hundred ( 500) 
square feet per tent or cabin. Campsite areas may be consolidated when tents or cabins are clustered, 
provided that the required square footage per unit is maintained, and the area is exclusive of drive 
aisles, parking spaces, or common access ways.  
 
This section is intended to provide adequate spacing and campsite area per space. Provisions have 
been made to allow for clustering in group camping or cabin areas.   
  
PLTA-25-2   September 15, 2025 
9. No recreational vehicle occupying any recreational vehicle space shall have permanent additions of 
any kind. Skirting of recreational vehicles is permissible provided such skirting shall not attach the 
recreational vehicles permanently to the ground. 
 
This section prohibits any permanent additions from being constructed on a space. Likewise, it 
prohibits skirting from being permanent skirting that affixes a vehicle to the ground.  
 
10. Space occupation for more than one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days shall: 
a. be permitted only within designated long-term stay areas of the recreational vehicle park, 
b. be skirted with materials designed for weather protection and visual uniformity, 
c. be occupied only by self-contained units, 
d. be manufactured within the last 20 years, 
e. display a valid Recreation Vehicle Industry Association (RVIA) certification seal verifying 
compliance with the applicable ANSI or HUD recreational vehicle construction standards in 
effect at the time of manufacture, 
f. not be occupied by a recreational vehicle classified as a nuisance pursuant to section 8.60.080 
of municipal code, and 
g. not have permanent additions, such as room extensions, porches, or attached garages or 
carports. 
 
This section sets specific standards for users occupying spaces for periods of time exceeding 180-days. 
Recreational vehicles used for long-term stays in the park must be located only in designated areas , 
be skirted with weather-protective and uniform materials, and be self-contained units manufactured 
within the last 20 years. Skirting with weather protective materials and uniform materials prevent the 
installation of plywood or other items.  Self-contained units are defined in the ordinance and require 
these units to have functional water and sewer systems. The display of a valid RVIA certification seal 
confirms that at the time of manufacture the unit was constructed with app licable construction 
standards for recreational vehicles.  All recreational vehicles  are required to be op erable and 
registered and permanent additions cannot be made to these units.   
 
11. Recreational vehicle spaces designated for long-term occupancy shall include one detached individual 
storage structure per space, not exceeding 160 square feet in floor area. All storage structures shall 
be approved in conjunction with a  site plan and designed with consistent materials, colors, and 
architectural elements to ensure a unified appearance. 
 
For long-term sites, an outdoor storage space is required. This requires placement of outdoor storage 
structures that are approved in conjunction with a site plan . T his also requires that storage units 
throughout the park match.   
 
12. Recreational vehicle parks not meeting the definition of temporary use per this Code shall comply with 
the development standards of this section. 
 
This clarifies that facilities proposed for periods exceeding 14 -days are considered permanent uses 
and require conformance with the development standards. City/County Health does license and 
inspect all temporary and permanent facilities.   
 
  
PLTA-25-2   September 15, 2025 
Modification to UDC 5.8.2, Manufactured Home Parks  
 
This amendment cleans up language that has been rolle d into the U DC from previous iterations of 
municipal code. This terminology has not been updated with the UDC and was carried over primarily from 
1982 and 1988 versions of the municipal code. He present section references an obsolete document - the 
State of Wyoming Mobile Home Park and Campground regulations. This amendment reflects the CLCPH 
licensing requirements and the presen t licensing of combined manufactured housing park s. Several 
combined manufactured housing parks exist within City limits today.    
  
Travel Trailers and Recreational Vehicles.  Travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall not be 
installed in manufactured housing parks or subdivisions as a dwelling unit. The use of travel 
trailers and recreational vehicles shall be allowed only in  recreational vehicle parks , 
campgrounds, or mobile home parks or combined manufactured housing parks, all licensed by 
the city/county health departmentas defined in the state of Wyoming Mobile Home Park and 
Campground regulations. 
 
REVIEW CRITERIA: 
 
Review of a UDC text amendment shall be measured by the following three (3) criteria of Section 2.4.1.d: 
 
1. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:  
“The amendment is in accordance with general goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, or 
is necessary to address an emerging issue not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan and is not 
inconsistent with the plan.” 
 
The proposed amendment addresses an emerging issue not fully anticipated in the 
Comprehensive Plan, but does align with its general goals and policies, specifically responding to 
community desires and concerns . This change comes after challenges were identified in 
conjunction with discussions surrounding a recent work camp proposal where it was identified 
that work camps were viewed as more of a permanent use and provisions for that use did not 
exist. 
 
The Comprehensive Plan promotes “Quality Workforce Housing” per Policy 2.5.C, which states 
that work force housing should be  constructed of durable materials that minimize maintenance 
and will stand the test of time, is designed with architectural details that are functional and 
attractive, and designed with a character and scale that is compatible with the surrounding 
neighborhood. Recreational Vehicle Parks as proposed in this amendment, do uphold this policy.  
 
This proposed text amendment meets this criterion. 
 
2. STATE STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:  
The amendment is consistent with the Wyoming Statutes, and specifically the Municipal Planning 
and Zoning statutes. The following Articles are all listed verbatim from Wyoming State Statute. 
 
WYO 15-1-601. The governing body of any city or town, by ordinance, may: 
 
(d) All regulations shall be made: 
(i) In accordance with a comprehensive plan and designed to: 
(A) Lessen congestion in the streets; 
(B) Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; 
PLTA-25-2   September 15, 2025 
(C) Promote health and general welfare; 
(D) Provide adequate light and air; 
(E) Prevent the overcrowding of land; 
(F) Avoid undue concentration of population; and 
(G) Facilitate adequate provisions for transportation, water, 
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements. 
 
Assessment: This amendment proposes  amending the zoning code in accordance with the 
comprehensive plan and is in accordance with the purposes of state statute.  
 
3. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND PUBLIC WELFARE:  
“The amendment promotes the general health, safety and public welfare.” 
 
This amendment provides for a lodging option for visitors and a residential option for people and 
families who desire to live in these types of facilities for extended periods of time. These parks 
can provide economic benefits to the City.    
 
 
CONCLUSION:  
 
Staff concludes that this text amendment meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d. 
 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:  
 
Staff recommends approval of text amendments amending sections 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 5.1.4, 5.7.10, 5.8.2  of 
the Unified Development Code to define Recreational Vehicle Parks and Campgrounds, designate zone 
districts for their operation, create specific use standards for Recreational Vehicle Parks Campgrounds, 
and revise Manufactured Home and Parks Regulations as necessary as outlined in this staff report, noting 
the requests meets the review criteria of UDC 2.4.1.d.   
 
 
ATTACHMENTS: 
 
1. 2009 Cheyenne – Laramie County Campground Regulations 













