Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
MEMO 
To: Honorable Mayor Patrick Collins and Members of the City Council 
From: Charles W. Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director 
Subject: A Resolution Approving the Jolly Rogers Urban Renewal Plan and Project Pursuant to 
Wyoming Statute § 15-9-110. 
Date: June 10, 2024 
 
Background:  
 
The item for consideration is a Resolution. The proposed Governing Body review schedule is as follows: 
• Introduction and Public Hearing  October 13, 2025 
• Public Services Committee   October 20, 2025 
• Final Consideration   October 27, 2025 
 
Summary:  
 
The City of Cheyenne adopted Ordinance No. 4381 and Resolution No. 6156 on June 28, 2021, 
authorizing the creation and use of powers for the Urban Renewal Authority. Included within the Urban 
Renewal Powers is the ability to make Urban Renewal Plans and Projects. The attached plan serves to 
establish the Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project for the City of Cheyenne. The Governing Body 
adopted a resolution on July 10, 2023, declaring the area as blight pursuant to § 15-9-107, thus making 
the area eligible for an Urban Renewal Plan and Project. The Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan will 
overview the urban renewal boundaries of the project area and authorized urban renewal activities, the 
project financing (including tax increment financing), the terms of the plan, the conformance of the 
urban renewal project with adopted City of Cheyenne plans, the conformance of the project with Wyo. 
Stat. § 15-9-110, and the procedures to amend the plan.  
 
Approval of this Plan and Project would freeze the property tax distribution for tax year 2026 for a 
period of 25 years. The current tax base for 2025 is $3,543.10, and the 2026 base may be higher or 
lower depending on the new assessment. Taxes collected in excess of the 2026 base amount would 
constitute the tax increment over the 25-year period. 
 
The applicant’s Plan and Project estimate that approximately $930,000 in total increment could be 
generated over a 20-year period. In an interview with the County Assessor, the applicant indicated that 
the Assessor’s estimate of the 20-year increment was approximately $790,000. Actual tax increment 
generation is difficult to predict, particularly given current uncertainties in property tax assessments. 
The City bears no financial responsibility in the event that the increment fails to perform as projected. 
 
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their September 15, 2025, meeting and recommended 
the Governing Body deny “for failure to find the program financially workable, failure to meet the goals 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
increasing public access downtown, and failure to increase public private partnership as the project 
appears to favor private interests.” Discussion indicated that the reason for this recommendation was to 
trigger discussion at the Governing Body level and a desire for the Planning Commission to receive 
additional feedback on what the Governing Body believes is the appropriate use of tax increment 
financing dollars for future guidance. 
 
The Urban Renewal Authority (URA) Board reviewed this item at their meeting on September 4, 2025, 
and recommended approval with the following condition: 
“Prior to Planning Commission consideration, the applicant revise the Authorized Urban 
Renewal Activities section (p 8) of the Plan and Project to ensure alignment with Wyoming 
Statute § 15-9-113 and established standards for expenditure of public funds as follows: 
a. Historic Rehabilitation subsection. References to “historic rehabilitation” shall be 
revised to “general rehabilitation” clearly serving a public purpose or providing a 
community benefit and not serving solely private interests. 
b. The following additional language shall be incorporated: “Improvements that primarily 
serve private interests are ineligible for public funding, even where incidental public 
benefits may exist. Public funds may only be applied where the improvement is 
structured to provide a direct, measurable, and enforceable return to the public, 
consistent with Wyoming State Statutes and the Wyoming Constitution.” 
The applicant revised the Plan and Project in accordance with the URA Board conditions for review by 
the Planning Commission. 
 
Attached is the memorandum that was presented to the Planning Commission, with the attached staff 
report presented to the URA Board. The Plan and Project presented to the Planning Commission that 
was attached has been excluded, as it is now incorporated as Attachment A to the resolution. Condition 
a has been revised and is reflected in the first bullet point on page 10, and revisions in accordance with 
condition b, above, are reflected in italics at the bottom of page 18. The previous Plan and Project 
submitted to the URA Board can be found on the URA website, on the URA Board’s September 5, 2025, 
agenda, at www.cheyennecity.org/URA.  
 
Attachments: 
1. Resolution 
2. Planning Commission Staff Report (Note, the Plan and Project has been omitted because it is 
reincluded as Attachment A of the Resolution).   
1 
RESOLUTION NO. __________ 
 
ENTITLED: "A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE BELL BUILDING  URBAN 
RENEWAL PROJECT AND THE BELL BUILDING  URBAN 
RENEWAL PLAN PURSUANT TO WYOMING STATUTE § 15-9-110." 
 
WHEREAS, following a public hearing, pursuant to Resolution No. 6334, adopted by 
the Governing Body on July 10, 2023, and in accordance with Wyoming Urban Renewal Code, 
the City of Cheyenne determined certain areas to be appropriate for an urban renewal project; 
 
 WHEREAS, included within the scope of Resolution No. 6334, the Governing Body 
found that the previously established downtown urban renewal area should be expanded to 
include the area of Cheyenne located between Bent Avenue and Morrie Avenue from east to 
west, and extending from approximately 20th Street and Lincolnway to the Union Pacific 
Railroad corridor from north to south; 
 
WHEREAS, Full Circle Realty, LLC, submitted  the Bell Building Plan and Project, a 
combined document serving as both the urban renewal plan and as the urban renewal project, 
as defined by Wyoming Statute § 15-9-103(a)(xviii) and Wyoming Statute Section 15 -9-
103(a)(xix), respectively (hereinafter referred to as “the Plan” and “the Project”); 
 
WHEREAS, the Bell Building is located within the expanded downtown urban renewal 
area described above, as depicted in the submitted Plan and Project documents, and is therefore 
authorized for potential urban renewal activities; 
 
WHEREAS, on September 4, 2025, the Cheyenne Urban Renewal Authority Board 
reviewed the  Plan and: (i) found it to be in conformity with  Plan Cheyenne, the City of 
Cheyenne and Laramie County’s  comprehensive land use and community development plan ; 
and (ii) recommended  approval of the Plan subject to revisions ensuring alignment with 
Wyoming Statute § 15-9-113, which prescribes the powers of a municipal urban renewal 
authority, and with established standards governing the expenditure of public funds, including: 
 
a. Revising all references to “historic rehabilitation” to “general rehabilitation,” which 
shall clearly serve a public purpose and not solely private interests; and 
 
b. Inserting language clarifying that improvements primarily benefitting private 
interests are ineligible for public funding, and that public funds may only be applied 
where the improvement provides a direct, measurable, and enforceable public return 
consistent with Wyoming statutes and the Wyoming Constitution. 
 
WHEREAS, Wyoming Statute § 15 -9-108 requires that, prior to approval of an urban 
renewal project, the applicable plan be submitted to the City Planning Commission for review 
and recommendation concerning its conformity with PlanCheyenne, and prior to such review 
Full Circle Realty, LLC, submitted a revised Plan incorporating the conditions imposed by the 
Urban Renewal Authority Board; 
 
 2 
WHEREAS, on September 15, 2025, the City Planning Commission reviewed the 
revised Plan, found it to be in conformity with PlanCheyenne, and recommended that the 
Governing Body not adopt the Plan for failure to find the Program financially workable, failure 
to meet the goals increasing public access downtown,  and failure to increase public private 
partnership as the project appears to favor private interests; 
 
WHEREAS, on September 27, 2025, and October 4, 2025, the City published notice of 
the public hearing as required by Wyo ming Statute § 15-9-109(b) in a newspaper having a 
general circulation in the area, and on September 25, 2025, mailed notice to all affected taxing 
agencies and property owners within the designated urban renewal area; 
 
WHEREAS, on October 13, 2025 , the Governing Body held a public hearing on the 
Plan and Project in accordance with Wyo ming Statute § 15-9-109(a) and upon review of the 
Plan and the Project, attached hereto as Attachment A and incorporated herein by reference, 
makes the following findings: 
 
(i)  The Plan conforms to PlanCheyenne, and is consistent with defined local 
objectives respecting infill opportunities, locations for future revitalization, 
downtown revitalization and mix of uses, infill and revitalization incentives, 
building reuse, mix of downtown activities, and downtown placemaking; 
 
(ii)   The Plan is sufficiently complete to indicate land acquisition, demolition and 
removal of structures, redevelopment, improvements , rehabilitation as may be 
proposed to be carried out in the urban renewal area, and any associated zoning 
and planning modifications; 
 
(iii)   Because the Plan does not propose relocation of residential properties,  there is 
no need to designate a method for relocation of families displaced from the urban 
renewal area; 
 
(iv)   The Plan gives due consideration to the provision of adequate park and 
recreational areas and facilities that may be desirable for neighborhood 
improvement, with special consideration for the health, safety and welfare of 
children residing in the general vicinity; and 
 
(v)   The Plan affords maximum opportunity, consistent with municipal needs, for 
the rehabilitation or redevelopment of the urban renewal area by private 
enterprise. 
 
WHEREAS, approval of the Plan and Project authorizes, pursuant to Wyoming Statute 
§ 15-9-120, the allocation of the portion of property tax revenues designated for tax increment 
financing, to be deposited into the Urban Renewal Fiduciary Fund and applied  exclusively to 
the Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project. 
 
 3 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE 
CITY OF CHEYENNE, WYOMING, that the Bell Building  Urban Renewal Plan and Bell 
Building Urban Renewal Project, as set forth in Attachment A, are hereby approved. 
 
 
PRESENTED, READ AND ADOPTED this _______ day of _________________, 
2025. 
 
 
_______________________________________  
Patrick Collins, Mayor  
 
 
(SEAL)  
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
____________________________________  
Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
Bell Building Urban
Renewal Plan & Project
City of Cheyenne 
September 2025
Submitted by 2720 Capitol, LLC
ATTACHMENT A
Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 2
Table of Contents
Introduction ..............................................................3
Urban Renewal Boundaries .........................................6
Conditions Survey .....................................................7
Authorized Urban Renewal Activities ...........................10
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) .....................................13
Plan Financing ..........................................................15
Conformance with Comprehensive Plan .....................16
Conformance with Wyoming Statutes .........................17
Plan Term and Amendment Procedures ......................18
Conclusion ..............................................................19

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 3
Introduction
The City of Cheyenne, in accordance with Wyoming 
Statute § 15-9-106 and adopted Ordinance No 4381, 
and Resolution No 6156, which creates authority for the 
Urban Renewal Authority, has approved urban renewal 
projects to address blight and promote economic 
revitalization. The redevelopment of such blighted 
areas are vital for the health, safety, welfare, and 
economic development of the community. Therefore, 
the City Council has delegated authority to the Urban 
Renewal Authority to review and recommend urban 
renewal plans and projects to the City of Cheyenne. 
This plan will establish The Bell Building as an 
Urban Renewal Plan and Project for the City of 
Cheyenne. The Bell Building Urban Renewal 
Plan and Project aims to restore the Bell Building 
(1605 Central Ave, Cheyenne), a historically 
significant yet deteriorated structure in downtown 
Cheyenne. This plan outlines existing conditions, 
proposed redevelopment efforts, financing strategies, 
and compliance with city and state policies. 
The Bell Building will be restored to its original use of 
public parking, with the top floor designated for loft 
living. The Bell Building construction was completed 
in 1913 and was originally a three-story Buick storage 
garage. It had an open floor plan with steel beams and 
an elevator system that allowed cars to be stored on 
each of the three levels and displayed in the windows. 
Following that, it was used for parking for the Plains 
Hotel, then converted to offices in the 1950’s. At 
some point, the roof was expanded upwards and a 
fourth floor was added to the building. Each floor is 
approximately 4,500 square feet with a footprint of 
50 x 90 feet. Currently, there are four floors, but the 
fourth floor is considered structurally unsafe and will 
need to be removed prior to any further development. 

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 4
The building has been dark since the 1980’s. Since then, strategic and incremental efforts have been made to 
preserve the structure. The building was mothballed in 2020 to prevent further deterioration. All asbestos was 
abated, a new roof was added, and plywood was placed over the windows. The plywood was frequently disrupted 
by the intrusion of pigeons and vandals, allowing snow and water into the structure. Graffiti, dead pigeons, 
and pigeon feces became a growing concern. In 2024, new windows and storefronts were placed to seal the 
building and bring significant curb appeal to the block. Now, it’s time to put the building back into full use. 
The first floor will have one small storefront that will serve to promote foot traffic and retail in downtown 
Cheyenne. The middle of the two storefronts will be a garage door in which cars enter in and out of and 
wait to be transported to their designated spots. Adjacent to the car staging area will be the holding area 
for users as they await their cars to be retrieved. Utilizing advanced technology, the interior of the building 
on floors one and two will be converted to a highly secure rack and rail garage that holds approximately 
32 cars. The third floor would hold five market rate loft apartments that include studio, one bedroom, and 
two bedrooms. The fourth floor will be removed to ensure safety of the building and its occupants.  

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 5

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 6
Urban Renewal Boundaries
The project encompasses the entire parcel at 1605 Central Ave and adjacent public infrastructure necessary 
for improvements. Situated in downtown Cheyenne, the Bell Building’s location makes it a key candidate for 
renewal, contributing to economic growth, historic preservation, and community revitalization. The building 
has already been approved by WYDOT for entry and exit of cars onto the property (Attachment A). 

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 7
Conditions Survey
A comprehensive conditions survey, referencing prior urban renewal studies (Jolly Rogers and 
Expanded Downtown Study published in Spring 2023 and adopted by City Council on July 10, 2023), 
confirms that the Bell Building meets the Wyoming Statute § 15-9-103 definition of blight due to:
 • Deteriorated Structural Conditions: The building exhibits facade decay, outdated and missing 
infrastructure, and internal deterioration layered with pigeon feces and graffiti. The fourth floor is 
structurally unstable and will need to be removed, a new structure will need to be installed at the 
roof connection to ensure the integrity of the building and safety of the building occupants. 
 • Unsafe and Obsolete Systems: Electrical, plumbing, HVAC, elevator systems, and fire suppression systems 
have all been removed. There is no water to the building currently and no life safety utilities or services 
in the structure including a sprinkler system, emergency exits, stairs, or elevators. A new sprinkler system, 
fire rated doors, access to elevator, fire and smoke alarms and updated critical utilizes will be added.
 • Unsanitary or Unsafe Conditions: The absence of infrastructure and the structurally 
unsound fourth floor creates unsafe internal building conditions.
 • Underutilization and Economic Decline: The building’s vacancy negatively impacts the surrounding 
commercial environment. The building hasn’t been occupied for more than 30 years.
*Blight Study Excerpts:
To identify blight areas and slum areas in the community, staff created a survey with the 
nine (9) conditions of blight identified in the definitions section of the Wyoming Urban 
Renewal Code. Staff did not utilize the conditions of slum areas as they were similar to 
those of blight. Staff extrapolated nine distinct characteristics of blight as defined in WY 
Stat. § 15-9-103(iii). The nine conditions with one option of “Other” include:
 • Deteriorated or Deteriorating Structures
 • Predominance of Defective or Inadequate Street layout
 • Faulty Lot Layout in Relation to Size, Accessibility or Usefulness
 • Unsanitary or Unsafe Conditions
 • Deterioration of Site or Other Improvements
 • Diversity of Ownership, Tax or Other Special Assessments
 • Delinquency Exceeding the Fair Value of the Land
 • Defective or Unusual Conditions which Endanger Life  
or Property by Fire and other causes
 • Other

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 8

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 9

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 10
Authorized Urban Renewal Activities
Under Wyoming Statute § 15-9-113, the following redevelopment activities will be implemented:
 • Generalized Rehabilitation: Restoration of the building’s facade, structure, and 
interior spaces to preserve structural integrity. Phase 1 of this project, which included 
restoration of the storefront and windows, has already been approved for Historic Tax 
Credits and completed. We anticipate subsequent phases to follow suit. 
 • Infrastructure Upgrades: Improvements to streets, sidewalks, and public utilities to enhance accessibility 
and safety. Adding water and sewage lines to the building will be vital for redevelopment. Removing 
the fourth floor and adding additional structure is necessary to maintain the structural integrity for the 
building. Adding life safety upgrades to include emergency exits, fire and smoke alarms, stairs, and 
elevator access will also be an important part of this project. This will make the building ADA accessible.
 • Utility and Safety Modernization: Installation of electrical, plumbing, HVAC, elevators, 
exhaust, and fire suppression systems will occur during the redevelopment.

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 11
 • Commercial and Parking Redevelopment: One storefront on the main floor will provide additional retail 
revenue and foot traffic to the area. The third floor will hold five market rate apartments that include studio, 
one bedroom, and two bedroom apartments. To ensure the success of the apartments, a portion of the on-
site secure parking will need to be allocated to tenants. Primarily, though, the parking will be for the public, 
which has been identified as a priority for the community in the Downtown Development Authority 2024 
Plan and the Downtown Strategic Parking 2016 Plan. Public parking will assist businesses, employees of 
downtown, downtown residents, adjacent hotel guests, and visitors with secured parking. The Bell location, 
in particular, often has limited parking and high demand. Similar to the City of Cheyenne’s parking garage, 
this will be paid parking that is for public use. Public parking contributes extensively to the public benefit 
by supporting local business and downtown revitalization. Easy access to parking is crucial for attracting 
customers to businesses in downtown Cheyenne. Convenient parking options encourage higher foot traffic, 
leading to increased exposure and sales opportunities for businesses, ultimately boosting the downtown 
economy and contributing to revitalization efforts. In this particular location, parking could be a catalyst 
for the redevelopment of the Plains Hotel since its current occupants have no designated parking. Those 
attending Friday Night at the Depot, the Lincoln Theater, the Farmer’s Market, and other events will have the 
opportunity to have their car protected from intrusion, vandalism, and hail while visiting the downtown.
*Excerpt from Downtown Strategic Parking Plan 2016

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 12

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 13
Tax Increment Financing (TIF)
Following the City of Cheyenne’s urban renewal financing framework, this project proposes 
using Tax Increment Financing (TIF) per Wyoming Statute § 15-9-120.
 • Base Tax Revenue: Continues to be distributed to existing taxing authorities.
 • Incremental Tax Revenue: Funds generated from increased property values due to redevelopment will 
cover project-related expenses (ie. infrastructure and site improvements) which will be divided as follows: 
a. That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate upon which the tax is levied each 
year by or for each of the taxing agencies upon the total sum of the assessed value of the taxable 
property in the urban renewal project as shown upon the assessment roll used in connection with 
the taxation of the property by the taxing agency, last equalized prior to the effective date of the 
urban renewal project shall be allocated to and, when collected, paid into the funds of the respective 
taxing agencies as taxes by or for those taxing agencies on all other property are paid; and
b. That portion of the levied taxes each year in excess of the amount specified in paragraph (a) of this 
section shall be allocated to and, when collected, paid into a special fund of the City of Cheyenne to 
pay the principal and interest on loaned money advanced to, or any indebtedness (whether funded, 
refunded, assessed, or otherwise) incurred by the City or the Urban Renewal Authority, unless the 
total assessed valuation of the taxable property for the aforementioned properties exceeds the total 
assessed value of the taxable property in the project as shown by the last equalized assessment 
roll referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the 
taxable property in the urban renewal project shall be paid into the funds of the respective taxing 
agencies. When any loans, advances and indebtedness, if any, and interest have been paid in full, 
all monies thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the urban renewal project 
shall be paid into the funds of the various taxing agencies as taxes on all other property are paid.

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 14
The tax increment will be used to fulfill the purposes of Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-121, which reads:
In any urban renewal plan or in proceedings for the advance of monies or making of loans or the incurring 
of any indebtedness by the municipality or agency to finance or refinance in whole or in part the urban 
renewal project, the portion of the taxes specified in W.S. 15-9- 120(a)(ii) may be irrevocably pledged 
for the payment of the principal of and interest on those loans or advances or that indebtedness.
The City will utilize the TIF to pay principal and interest on loans the City or a designated 
developer(s) receives for the purposes of carrying out the activities specified in this plan.
Estimated Cost of the Project: 
Parking Structure: $70,000/space, 32 spaces 2,240,000
Apartments and Retail: $400/sq foot, 7000 sq ft 2,800,000
Removal of 4th floor 50,000
Addition of sprinkler system, emergency exits, and elevator 500,000
Addition of utilities for water and sewer 70,000
Soft costs: 20% of project 1,132,000
TOTAL 6,792,000
Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 15
Plan Financing
The Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project will be funded through a combination of:
 • Tax Increment Financing (TIF) revenues.
 • Private investment and developer contributions. 2720 Capitol, LLC has partnered 
with Pinnacle Bank for this project and will use private reserves for a portion. 
 • Grants for historic preservation and economic development. Joint 
Powers Board and DDA funding will be pursued. 
 • Historic Tax Credits. These have already been applied for initially and awarded 
for Phase 1 in the summer of 2024. There is a time limit of 5 years to complete 
all of the phases of this project to attempt to receive the tax credits. 
The base tax collected of this property is currently $3604.09 per year. With the additional of one storefront, 
five lofts, and an automatic parking garage structure, the building is expected to exceed 6M in appraised 
value. This would increase the annual tax base to approximately $50,000, an increase of $46,396 
annually* . Over twenty years this could potentially convert to approximately $927,918 of TIF funding. 
Estimated Cost of the Project: 
*Projected annual TIF revenue estimates are based on actual assessor data.
Parking Structure: $70,000/space, 32 spaces 2,240,000
Apartments and Retail: $400/sq foot, 7000 sq ft 2,800,000
Removal of 4th floor 50,000
Addition of sprinkler system, emergency exits, and elevator 500,000
Addition of utilities for water and sewer 70,000
Soft costs: 20% of project 1,132,000
TOTAL 6,792,000
Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 16
Conformance with Comprehensive Plan
The Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project aligns with the PlanCheyenne goals and policies, specifically:
 • Policy 1.1 and Policy 1.2.A: Supporting urban growth.
 • Policy 1.4.B: Encouraging adaptive reuse of historic structures for future revitalization.
 • Policy 1.4.C: Encouraging continued renovation, building reuse, and restoration in the downtown core. 
 • Policy 2.3.B: Enhancing mixed-use development within the downtown 
core by providing secure parking, retail and loft living.
 • Policy 3.2.F: Adding compatible off street parking. 
 • Policy 3.4.C: Promoting parking between buildings inside of in front of buildings. 
 • Policy 5.1.A: Restoring a historic building. 
Additionally, this plan conforms to zoning and land use regulations  
outlined in Cheyenne’s comprehensive framework.

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 17
Conformance with Wyoming Statutes
In order for an Urban Renewal Plan and Project to be approved the Governing Body must 
find that the plan meets the review criteria found in Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-110(a) and (b). The Bell 
Building Urban Renewal Project Plan Specifically meets the following of these criteria: 
The urban renewal plan conforms to the general plan of the municipality as a whole;
(PlanCheyenne, Downtown Development Authority 2024 Plan)
The urban renewal plan affords maximum opportunity, consistent with the municipality’s needs, 
for the rehabilitation or redevelopment of the urban renewal area by private enterprise.
Nonresidential uses are necessary and appropriate to facilitate the proper growth and development of 
the community in accordance with sound planning standards and local community objectives.
This plan also complies with Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-101 which establishes that there is slum 
and blight in urban areas throughout Wyoming particularly regarding:
 • Blight determination and redevelopment justification
 • Urban renewal authority powers and project execution
 • Tax Increment Financing (TIF) mechanisms and fiscal policies
Finally, “The Urban Renewal Authority established criteria in June of 2022 to aide in deciding whether 
a project should be awarded tax increment financing. The criteria are shown below” . 
1.  The project is within an area determined to be blighted by the Governing Body. The blight determination  
must be detailed in a Blight Study and adopted by the Governing Body through resolution;  
This was completed by the City of Cheyenne Governing Body on July 10, 2023.
2.  The project is in accordance with the development policies and physical patterns identified in the Comprehensive 
Plan and any other official plans and policies for the specified area; Completed via this document. 
3.  The project has demonstrated a financial feasibility gap or may not be constructed without 
the tax increment financing assistance; TBD by the 3rd Party Assessor. Based on 
current projections, this project is not feasible without TIF assistance. 

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 18
4.  The project development team has demonstrated experience in completing projects of similar complexity 
to the proposed project; A team of experts with experience in large scale projects and historic 
preservation has been assembled. This includes: 5R Construction (Carey Junior High, Archer, 
Botanic Gardens) and Megin Rux (Lincoln, the Met). 2720 Capitol, LLC’s project portfolio 
includes the renovation of the Grier Building, the old Owl Inn, and Best Med Urgent Care. 
5.  The project development team has demonstrated the financial capability of completing the proposed project 
with the tax increment financing assistance; We have partnered with Pinnacle Bank on this project. 
6. T he project responds to existing or future market conditions or fulfills a significant need in 
the community; There have been multiple parking studies and surveys conducted 
identifying lack of parking and lack of downtown housing as hindrances to visitation 
and economic development. Some of these are referenced in this document. 
7.  The project will result in increased job creation, tax generation, development, or other economic 
development considerations in the immediate vicinity of which it is proposed; This will increase 
the tax basis of this and adjacent properties, add downtown residents, promote further 
downtown visitation and spending, and aid in a parking solution for the Plains Hotel.
8. Any other criteria deemed appropriate by the Urban Renewal Authority.
Improvements that primarily serve private interests are ineligible for public funding, even where incidental public benefits 
may exist. Public funds many only be applied where the improvement is structured to provide a direct, measurable, 
and enforceable return to the public consistent with the Wyoming State Statutes and Wyoming Constitution.
Plan Term and Amendment Procedures
The Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project will be in effect for 25 years from adoption by the 
City of Cheyenne. The Plan will be effective pursuant to Wyoming Statute § 15-9-111 (b). If the Governing 
Body determines that all projects have been completed, and all debts and expenses incurred by the 
Authority to finance those projects have been repaid, it may declare this Plan fully implemented. At that 
time, all tax collections from the Plan Area shall be directed to the appropriate taxing entity’s funds.
Any amendments to this Plan shall follow Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-111(a). All modifications will be submitted by the 
Urban Renewal Authority Board to the City of Cheyenne Governing Body for approval by Resolution.

Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan & Project       2720 Capitol, LLC + MBX Architecture
Page 19
Conclusion
The Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project presents a strategic vision for 
revitalizing a historic downtown property. By addressing blight conditions, promoting 
economic development, and enhancing Cheyenne’s urban core, this project will:
 • Preserve a historically significant structure while modernizing infrastructure.
 • Attract businesses, residents, and visitors to support downtown vitality.
 • Add residents to downtown.
 • Leverage public-private partnerships for sustainable growth in the 
downtown area while solving a parking problem.
This plan is submitted for approval by 2720 Capitol, LLC and MBX Architecture, in 
coordination with the City of Cheyenne Urban Renewal Authority.

Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
MEMO 
To: Planning Commission 
From: Charles W. Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director  
Subject: Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project 
Date: September 15, 2025 
 
Recommended Motion:  
 
Move to recommend approval of the Bell Building Plan and Project noting the plan has been modified to 
reflect the Urban Renewal Authority Board’s recommendation.  
 
Background: 
 
The Urban Renewal Authority (URA) Board reviewed this item at their meeting on September 4, 2025, 
and recommended approval with the following condition: 
 
“Prior to Planning Commission consideration, the applicant revise the Authorized Urban Renewal 
Activities section (p 8) of the Plan and Project to ensure alignment with Wyoming Statute § 15-9-113 
and established standards for expenditure of public funds as follows: 
a. Historic Rehabilitation subsection. References to “historic rehabilitation” shall be revised to 
“general rehabilitation” clearly serving a public purpose or providing a community benefit 
and not serving solely private interests. 
b. The following additional language shall be incorporated: “Improvements that primarily serve 
private interests are ineligible for public funding, even where incidental public benefits may 
exist. Public funds may only be applied where the improvement is structured to provide a 
direct, measurable, and enforceable return to the public, consistent with Wyoming State 
Statutes and the Wyoming Constitution.” 
 
Attached is the memorandum that was presented to the URA Board at its meeting. The prior Plan and 
Project document has been removed, and a revised Plan and Project satisfying the URA’s 
recommendation has been attached. Revisions for condition a in the first bullet point are on page 10 
and updates for condition b are in italics at the bottom of page 18. The URA provided document can be 
found on the URA website on the September 5, 2025, agenda (www.cheyennecity.org/URA).   
 
Attachments: 
1. Memo to the URA Board (without URA-submitted Plan and Project) 
2. Updated Bell Building Plan and Project (Dated September 5, 2025)  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
Planning and Development Office 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282   (Fax) 307-637-6366 
 
 
 
 
 
MEMO 
To: Urban Renewal Authority Board 
From: Charles Bloom, AICP, Planning and Development Director  
Subject: Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project 
Date: September 4, 2025 
 
Recommended Motion:  
 
Move to recommend approval of the Plan and Project with the following plan and project modification: 
 
1. Prior to Planning Commission consideration, the applicant revise the Authorized Urban Renewal 
Activities section (p 8) of the Plan and Project to ensure alignment with Wyoming Statute § 15-
9-113 and established standards for expenditure of public funds as follows: 
a. Historic Rehabilitation subsection. References to “historic rehabilitation” shall be 
revised to “general rehabilitation” clearly serving a public purpose or providing a 
community benefit and not serving solely private interests. 
b. The following additional language shall be incorporated: “Improvements that primarily 
serve private interests are ineligible for public funding, even where incidental public 
benefits may exist. Public funds may only be applied where the improvement is 
structured to provide a direct, measurable, and enforceable return to the public, 
consistent with Wyoming State Statutes and the Wyoming Constitution.” 
Synopsis:  
 
The City of Cheyenne adopted Ordinance No. 4381 and Resolution No. 6156 on June 28, 2021, 
authorizing the creation and use of powers for the Urban Renewal Authority. This action fulfilled the 
requirements in Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-106, § 15-9-107, § 15-9-133, and § 15-9-134 as the Governing Body 
adopted a resolution declaring one or more slum or blighted areas in the community and that the 
redevelopment of such areas are necessary for the health, safety, morals or welfare of the community; 
and the Governing Body delegated the authorities of Urban Renewal to the Cheyenne Urban Renewal 
Authority. By completing the previous actions and pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-106, the City of 
Cheyenne has completed the prerequisites to exercise the authority conferred by the Wyoming Urban 
Renewal Code. 
 
This plan serves to establish the Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project for the City of Cheyenne. 
The Governing Body adopted Resolution No. 6334 on July 10th, 2023, declaring the area as blight 
pursuant to § 15-9-107, thus making the area eligible for an Urban Renewal Plan and Project. The Bell 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Planning and Development Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue, Suite 202, Cheyenne WY 82001 
(Phone) 307-637-6282 (Fax) 307-637-6366 
Building Urban Renewal Plan will overview the urban renewal boundaries of the project area, authorized 
urban renewal activities, general project financing, general terms of the plan, the conformance of the 
urban renewal project with adopted City of Cheyenne plans, the conformance of the project with Wyo. 
Stat. § 15-9-110, and the procedures to amend the plan. Upon review and recommendation by the 
Urban Renewal Authority Board, the Plan will be reviewed by the Planning Commission for 
recommendation to the Governing Body.  The Governing Body may elect to adopt the Plan by 
resolution. The creation of the plan and adoption thereof serves to enable and fulfill Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-
107 through § 15-9-111, § 15-9-113, § 15-9-115 through § 15-9-116, and § 15-9-119 through § 15-9-132. 
 
The applicant proposes the following Authorized activities which are described on pages 10 and 11 of 
the Plan and Project document:   
 
1. Historic Rehabilitation 
2. Infrastructure Upgrades 
3. Utility and Safety Modernization 
4. Commercial and Parking Redevelopment 
 
Analysis of Eligible Activities 
 
Eligible activities are highlighted in the Plan and Project document at a high level, and the mention of 
them in this document does not automatically classify the activities as eligible. Eligible activities will be 
clearly defined in conjunction with the latter development agreement for tax increment financing (TIF). 
The development agreement will incorporate exhibits detailing all expenses and eligible expenses 
subject to TIF reimbursement.   
 
Staff reviewed the proposed activities and noted that certain descriptions could be interpreted in a 
manner inconsistent with statutory authority and constitutional limitations on the use of public funds. In 
particular, the reference to “historic rehabilitation” does not appear in statute and could be viewed as 
an activity serving a narrow or private interest rather than a general public purpose, particularly 
regarding the historic integrity of interior spaces. To address this, staff’s recommendation includes a 
condition to modify the document to frame it as “general rehabilitation” with the requirement that such 
activities demonstrate a clear public purpose or community benefit. This does not prohibit funding 
façade improvements or similar items that are on the exterior of the building that support historic 
preservation nor does it prohibit funding structural or safety improvements (therefore allowing the 
reuse of a historic structure).  
 
In addition, staff has recommended a condition that overarching clarifying language be added to ensure 
that improvements primarily serving private interests are not eligible for public funding. This condition 
establishes that public expenditures must be structured to provide a direct, measurable, and 
enforceable return to the public, consistent with Wyoming State Statutes and the Wyoming 
Constitution. Staff notes that further discussion will be necessary regarding the funding of “parking” in 
conjunction with the future development agreement to ensure that it is publicly accessible to a 
reasonable extent and that the public access is genuine, enforceable, and not merely incidental to 
private use. 
 
Soft costs, including programming, financing, and application fees, may be eligible for reimbursement 
through tax increment financing (TIF) as defined in the final TIF development agreement. 
Reimbursement amounts will not necessarily be on a dollar-for-dollar basis but may instead be 
calculated as a percentage of total project costs, proportionate to the portion of the project determined 
eligible for public funding. 
 
Analysis of Estimated Costs and Increment  
 
The applicant has identified an estimated project cost of about $6,790,000 (p.14). Included in those 
costs is a breakdown, showing $50,000 to remove the structurally unsafe 4th floor, $70,000 for the 
addition of water and sewer, and $500,000 for the addition of a sprinkler system, emergency exits, and 
an elevator. These types of costs would generally be considered eligible if there is a defined gap in 
funding, the cost identified is necessary to make the building functional for any type of use, and 
demonstrates a bona fide public benefit. If these three expenses are included in their entirety, along 
with their portion of the soft costs, these expenses would total about $740,000. The applicant has 
indicated an intention to also use TIF for funding part of the costs to create parking. Should elements of 
the applicant’s requested expenses be deemed ineligible upon the more in-depth analysis done at time 
of the TIF development agreement, there still appears to be worthwhile eligible expenses associated 
with the project. 
 
The Plan and Project anticipates that the improvements will generate an increment of about $930,000  
(p 15) over a 20-year period. These numbers are hard to accurately predict until the project has been 
fully designed, appraised, and assessed.  In discussion with the County Assessor in April of 2025, he 
anticipated an increment generation of about $790,000 based on information provided to him at that 
time. Again, these are estimates and are subject to further refinement.  
 
The future TIF development agreement will define the final increment to be collected based on the 
eligible expenses and the identified gap in project financing. In determining a financial gap, a reasonable 
ROI (Return on Investment) is considered.  
 
In the event an increment fails to perform as anticipated due to low assessments, changes in market 
conditions, or changes in property assessment or tax collection law, the deficiency is assumed by the 
developer. All TIF projects are reimbursement based, and reimbursements are made until either the 
increment meets the approved amount, or the tax increment collection expires.      
 
Conclusion 
 
Overall, approval of the plan will help aid redevelopment within an area determined as slum and blight. 
This is a small plan and project within this area. Improvement to this property will have positive effects 
and help prevent the spread of slum and blight in the blight designation area. The City’s use of tax 
increment financing, enabled by Wyo. Stat. § 15-9-120, to aid in the completion of the requested 
objectives, as conditioned in this approval, is appropriate.  
 
  
Recommendation:  
Staff recommends approval of the Plan and Project with the following plan and project modifications: 
1. Prior to Planning Commission consideration, the applicant revise the Authorized Urban Renewal
Activities section (p 8) of the Plan and Project to ensure alignment with Wyoming Statute § 15-
9-113 and established standards for expenditure of public funds as follows:
a. Historic Rehabilitation subsection. References to “historic rehabilitation” shall be
revised to “general rehabilitation” clearly serving a public purpose or providing a
community benefit and not serving solely private interests.
b. The following additional language shall be incorporated: “Improvements that primarily
serve private interests are ineligible for public funding, even where incidental public
benefits may exist. Public funds may only be applied where the improvement is
structured to provide a direct, measurable, and enforceable return to the public,
consistent with Wyoming State Statutes and the Wyoming Constitution.”
Attachments: 
1. Bell Building Urban Renewal Plan and Project
Removed and incorporated as Resolution Attachment A with 
URA recommended conditions.