Page 1 of 7 
City Contract No. ____________ 
 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 
for 
High Plains Arboretum: Greenhouse 
 
This Professional Services Agreement (“Agreement”) is  made and entered into by and 
between the City of Cheyenne, located at 2101 O’Neil Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 
(“City”), a nd TDSi - The Design Studio, inc. , located at 1610 Pioneer Avenue, Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, 82001 (“Consultant”). This Agreement shall become effective upon the date of the last 
signature affixed hereto. 
 
RECITALS 
 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and obligations herein expressed, it is agreed by 
and between the parties as follows: 
 
1. SCOPE OF WORK 
The Consultant agrees to provide services as described for the above-mentioned project, in 
accordance with the Scope of Work attached hereto as Exhibit A, incorporated by reference 
and expressly made a part hereof. 
 
2. TIME OF PERFORMANCE 
The work included in this Scope of Work shall be completed by December 31, 2026 , as 
stated in Exhibit A. 
 
3. COMPENSATION 
In consideration of the services to be performed pursuant to this Agreement, the Consultant 
will bill the City, and the City agrees to pay Consultant a not to exceed amount of one 
hundred fifty-four thousand two hundred and forty-three dollars ($154,243.00) as stated in 
Exhibit A.  
 
4. CONSULTANT RESPONSIBILITY 
In providing services under this Agreement, the Consultant shall perform in a manner 
consistent with that degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised by members of the same 
profession currently practicing under similar circumstances. Upon notice to the Consultant, 
the Consultant will, without additional compensation, correct those services not meeting 
such a standard. 
 
5. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS 
The Parties agree that they will perform their obligations as provided in this Agreement in 
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances. 
 
Page 2 of 7 
6. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE 
In compliance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of November 1988, the City of Cheyenne 
has established an Alcohol and Controlled Substance Policy that pertains to alcohol and 
drug usage by City Employees. All architects, engineers , and other consultants under 
contract with City of Cheyenne, and their employees and sub -consultants, are required to 
comply with the provisions of the City’s Alcohol and Controlled Substance Policy for drug 
and/or alcohol usage on City property or other s ites occupied by the Consu ltant while 
performing the duties and responsibilities of the Agreement. It is the responsibility of the 
Consultant to familiarize themselves with the requirements of this policy and to inform all 
their employees and sub -consultants of the requirements and  ensure their compliance. If 
the Consultant, their employees or sub-consultants are found in violation of this policy, the 
Agreement may be terminated. 
 
7. INDEMNIFICATION/HOLD HARMLESS 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Consultant shall indemnify and hold harmless the 
City of Cheyenne, its officers, directors, partners, employees, and representatives, from 
and against losses, damages, and judgments arising from claims by third parties, including 
reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses recoverable under applicable law, but only to the 
extent they are found to be caused by a negligent or wrongful act, error, or omission of 
Consultant or Consultant's officers , directors, members, partners, agents, employees, or 
subconsultants in the performance of services under this Agreement. 
 
8. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
The Consultant must provide proof of the following insurance coverages: 
 
 Commercial General Liability Insurance 
For claims arising out of bodily injury, illness, or death, or from damage to or destruction 
of property of others, including loss or use thereof, with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per 
occurrence, $2,000,000 aggregate for the entire term of the Agreement. 
 
 Workers’ Compensation 
Workers’ compensation coverage shall be in effect for the entire term of the Agreement, 
as required by Wyoming law, for all employees or agents providing services under this 
Agreement. Consultant shall provide the City with proof of workers’ compensation o r 
employer’s liability insurance coverage. 
 
 Professional Liability Insurance 
The Consultant shall provide proof of professional liability insurance or errors and 
omissions liability insurance in an amount not less than $500,000 to protect the City from 
any and all claims arising from the Consultant’s negligence in the performance o f duties 
under this Agreement. The City prefers that this liability insurance coverage be provided 
pursuant to an “occurrence” policy. 
 
Page 3 of 7 
 If this coverage is provided pursuant to a “claims made” policy: 
  a. Consultant shall, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, 
provide the City with a certificate of insurance demonstrating that such 
coverage is or shall be in effect at the time the Consultant begins the 
provision of services under this Agreement; and 
  b. In the event the Consultant’s services extend into a future policy period, the 
Consultant shall, prior to the policy expiration date, provide the City with a 
new certificate of insurance demonstrating that such coverage is or shall be 
in effect during all  periods of time that Consultant will provide services 
under this Agreement; and 
  c. Consultant shall maintain said “claims made” coverage for a period of five 
(5) years following the last date that Consultant has provided services under 
this Agreement; and 
  d. In the event the Consultant or the insurer terminates “claims made” 
coverage prior to the expiration of the periods provided in subparagraphs a., 
b., or c. of this paragraph, the Consultant shall provide to the City advance 
written notification of the termination of said coverage and shall provide the 
City with an endorsement for an extended reporting period (“tail coverage”) 
which shall be in effect for a period of time not less than five (5) years 
following the last date that Consultant has provided services under this 
Agreement.  
 
 Additional Insurance Information 
 
The Consultant shall name the City of Cheyenne as an Additional Insured  by 
endorsement on its insurance policies and shall provide the City with a copy of the 
endorsements. This requirement does not apply to workers’ compensation and professional 
liability insurance policies. 
 
Consultant shall provide the City with certificates of insurance acknowledging the above -
stated coverages prior to beginning any work under this Agreement. 
 
It is understood and agreed that these policies are primary and not contributory. All policies 
required under this Agreement shall be in effect for the duration of the Agreement. It shall 
be an affirmative obligation upon Consultant to immediately notify in writing the city risk 
manager, city clerk, and city attorney of any fact, circumstance, or occurrence that has 
resulted in or may result in the cancellation of, or substantive change to any insurance 
coverage required by this Agreement, and failure to do so shall be construed to be a breach 
of this Agreement. 
 
If requested by the City, the Consultant shall provide the City with copies of insurance 
policies and/or policy endorsements listing the City of Cheyenne as an additional insured. 
The City’s failure to request or review such policies, endorsements, or certificates shall not 
affect the City’s rights or Consultant’s obligation hereunder. 
 
Page 4 of 7 
Any insurance company providing coverage under this Agreement shall have a minimum 
A. M. Best rating of A- (excellent). 
 
9. MINORITY AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES (49 C.F.R. Part 26) 
All parties to this Agreement assure that no person will be excluded from participation in, 
denied the benefits of, or otherwise discriminated against, in connection with the award 
and performance of this Agreement on the grounds of age, race, color, disab ility, national 
origin, or sex. 
 
10. MONTHLY REPORT 
With every monthly billing, Consultant shall provide the City Representative with a written 
statement of the status of the work with respect to the Scope of Work, time sheets, and 
work schedule. Failure to provide the required monthly report will delay processing of any 
payment request until the report is submitted. 
 
11. INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT 
The Consultant shall function as an independent consultant for the purposes of this 
Agreement. The Consultant shall assume sole responsibility for any debts or liabilities that 
may be incurred by the Consultant in fulfilling the terms of this Agreement. Nothing in this 
Agreement shall be interpreted as authorizing the Consultant or its agents or employees to 
act as an agent or representative of or on behalf of the City or to incur any obligation of 
any kind on the behalf of the City. 
 
12. TAXES 
The Consultant agrees to pay all valid taxes, excises, license fees, permit fees, bills, debts, 
and obligations incurred by and in connection with its operations under this Agreement. 
 
13. DEFAULT 
Each and every term and condition in this Agreement shall be deemed to be a material 
element of the Agreement. In the event either party should fail or refuse to perform 
according to the terms of this Agreement, such party may be declared in default. 
 
14. REMEDIES 
In the event a party has been declared in default, such defaulting party shall be allowed a 
period of fifteen (15) days within which to cure the default. In the event the default remains 
uncorrected, the non-defaulting party declaring default may elect to: 
  a. Terminate the Agreement and seek damages, which damages shall not 
exceed the contract amount; or 
  b. Treat the Agreement as continuing and require specific performance. 
 
15. TERM AND TERMINATION 
The term of this  Agreement shall be f rom date of execution to December 31, 2026 . The 
parties may by mutual written agreement renew or extend this Agreement. 
Page 5 of 7 
The City may, without cause, and upon thirty (30) days’ written notice to the Consultant, 
terminate this Agreement in whole or in part at any time, for the City’s convenience. Upon 
receipt of such notice, the Consultant shall: 
  a. Discontinue all services affected; and 
  b. Deliver to the City within five (5) days all data, drawings, specifications, 
reports, estimates, summaries, and such other information and materials as 
may have been accumulated by the Consultant in performing this 
Agreement, whether completed or in process. 
  c. In the event of termination for convenience, the City will pay the Consultant 
for accepted work done and expenses incurred to the date of termination. 
Such acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
 
16. ADDITIONAL REMEDIES 
In the event the Consultant fails to strictly perform in accordance with this Agreement, the 
City may elect to correct the deficiencies and charge the Consultant. In the event of default 
of any of the conditions by either party which shall require the part y not in default to 
commence legal or equitable action against the defaulting party each party shall bear its 
own costs and expenses, including without limitation, attorney’s fees.  
 
17. GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND VENUE 
The construction, interpretation, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of Wyoming. The courts of the State of Wyoming shall have 
jurisdiction over any action arising out of this Agreement and over the parties, and the 
venue shall be the First Judicial District, Laramie County, Wyoming. 
 
18. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY 
The City of Cheyenne, along with its officials and employees, does not waive its 
governmental immunity by entering into this Agreement, except to the extent necessary for 
the parties to pursue a contract action to clarify or enforce the written terms of th e 
Agreement. Furthermore, the City specifically retains all immunities and defenses 
available to it as a sovereign or governmental entity pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 1 -39-101, et 
seq., and all other relevant state and federal law. Designations of venue, choic e of law, 
enforcement actions, and similar provisions should not be constructed as a waiver of 
governmental immunity. The parties agree that any ambiguity in this Agreement shall not 
be strictly construed, either against or for either party, except that an y ambiguity as to 
governmental or sovereign immunity shall be construed in favor of governmental 
immunity. 
 
19. MONITORING ACTIVITIES 
The City shall have the right to monitor all activities related to this Agreement that are 
performed by the Consultant or its sub -consultants. This shall include, but not be limited 
to, the right to make site inspections at any time and with reasonable notice; to bring experts 
and consultants on site to examine or evaluate completed work or work in progress; to 
examine the books, ledgers, documents, papers, and records pertinent to this Agreement; 
and to observe personnel in every phase of performance of the related work. 
Page 6 of 7 
 
20. OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS AND WORK PRODUCT 
All deliverables by the Consultant, all work product of the Consultant, all notes, 
calculations, memoranda, or any other documentation generated by the Consultant 
pursuant to the scope of this Agreement, shall be the property of the City of Cheyenne and 
shall be provided to the City of Cheyenne immediately upon request. 
 
21. NON-DISCRIMINATION 
The Consultant shall comply with the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Wyoming Fair 
Employment Practices Act (Wyo. Stat. § 27 -9-105, et seq .), the Americans With 
Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq ., and the Age 
Discrimination Act of 1975 and any properly promulgated rules and regulations thereto, 
and shall not discriminate against any individual on the grounds of age, sex, creed, color, 
race, religion, national origin, ancestry, pregnancy or qualif ying disability in connection 
with the performance under this Agreement. 
 
22. FORCE MAJEURE. 
The performance of the Agreement by either party shall be subject to force majeure 
including, but not limited to, acts of God, fire, flood, natural disaster, war or threat of war, 
acts or threats of terrorism, civil disorder, unauthorized strikes, governmental regulation or 
advisory, recognized health threats as determined by the World Health Organization, the 
Centers for Disease Control, or local government authority or health agencies (including, 
but not limited to, the health threats of COVID -19, H1N1, or similar infectious diseases), 
curtailment of transportation facilities, or other similar occurrence beyond the control of 
the parties, where any of those factors, circumstances, situations, or conditions or similar 
ones prevent, dissuade, or unreasonably delay the performance required by this Agreement. 
The Agreement may be cancelled by either party, without liability, damages, fees, or 
penalty, and any unused deposits or amounts paid shall be refunded, for any one or more 
of the above reasons, by written notice to the other party. 
 
23. PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION 
The Consultant shall endorse, as required by law, plans and reports prepared under this 
Agreement, and shall affix thereto his or her seal of professional registration, showing that 
he or she is licensed to practice in the State of Wyoming, if necessary. 
 
24. CONTROLLING TERMS 
In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the 
terms of Exhibit A, the terms of this Agreement shall control. 
 
25. ENTIRETY OF AGREEMENT 
This Agreement consisting of  seven (7) pages, and Exhibit A consisting of  twelve (12) 
pages, contain the entire understanding of the parties. There are no other terms or 
conditions, written or oral, concerning or controlling this matter. 
 
 
Page 7 of 7 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties to this Agreement, through their duly authorized 
representatives, have executed this Agreement on the days and dates set out below and certify that 
they have read, understood, and knowingly and voluntarily agreed to the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be 
deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
 
      City of Cheyenne 
 
 
      By: ______________________________________ 
(SEAL)      Patrick Collins, Mayor 
 
Attest: 
 
________________________________ Date: _____________________________________ 
Kylie Soden, City Clerk 
 
 
      Consultant 
TDSi - The Design Studio, inc. 
 
      By: ______________________________________ 
 
      Print Name: _______________________________ 
 
      Date: _____________________________________ 
1610 Pioneer Avenue Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970    www.tdsi.us
2BU 
Proposal for Architectural Services for 
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION 
GREENHOUSE 
Laramie County, Wyoming 
May 28, 2025 
City of Cheyenne 
Community Recreation and Events Department 
2101 O’Neil Avenue 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 
ATTN:   Jason Sanchez – Director, Community Recreation & Events 
RE: Proposal for Architectural Services for 
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION 
Laramie County, Wyoming 
Jason: 
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide this proposal for professional services in support of various 
projects at the High Plains Arboretum. We would be honored to work with you once again.  
As you review our proposal, please do not hesitate to reach out with any questions. We would be pleased to meet 
with you to further discuss our approach and how we can best support your project goals.  
TDSi History and Relevant Project Experience 
TDSi is a Cheyenne-based architectural firm with a 24-year history of delivering high-quality, sustainable design 
solutions supported by a strong commitment to client service. Our diverse portfolio includes recreational facilities, 
K–12 and higher education buildings, mixed-use developments, large-scale commercial projects, renovations, 
master planning, and historic preservation work. 
What Sets Our Design Team Apart 
Familiarity with the Project 
TDSi and our consulting team bring direct, recent experience with the site through our involvement in the 
2024 Facility Condition Assessment of the proposed High Plains Research Station and Arboretum State 
Historic Site for Wyoming State Parks, Historic Sites & Trails. This background gives us valuable insight as the 
project progresses. 
Exhibit A
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
           2025.05.30 
 Page 2 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
Proximity and Accessibility 
We believe close geographic proximity to the project site is essential to ensuring consistent communication 
and responsive service throughout all phases—from initial design through construction and into the warranty 
period. TDSi and the majority of our consultants are based locally and are readily available for on -site visits. 
 
Depth of Experience 
With over two decades of design experience across a wide range of project types, TDSi brings a wealth of 
knowledge to the table. This experience is further enriched by the strong track records of our consulting 
partners, who have contributed to numerous similar projects. 
 
Understanding of Local Requirements 
Our team has extensive experience working with the City of Cheyenne and Laramie County, including 
compliance with the City of Cheyenne and Board of Public Utilities Construction Specifications and Standard 
Drawings, current building codes, and other regulatory frameworks. Members of our team have served on 
building code adoption committees, the Unified Development Code (UDC) committee, the Building Code 
Board of Appeals, the Cheyenne Historic Preservation Board  and the State of Wyoming Review Board for the 
National historic Register. 
 
Creative and Responsive Solutions 
TDSi has a proven reputation for creative problem -solving and delivering innovative solutions tailored to 
project needs and constraints. Our design approach is grounded in thoughtful analysis and a commitment to 
maximizing value and opportunity for our clients. 
 
We understand that technical expertise alone is not enough. Listening closely to the Owner’s and Users’ needs is key 
to developing effective and meaningful design solutions. Our team is committed to aligning our work with the 
mission, vision, and character of the Community Recreation and Events Department—and to supporting your 
commitment to excellence. 
 
Thank you for considering TDSi as a partner for this important project. We look forward to the opportunity to move 
forward in your selection process. 
 
 
Thank you again, 
 
 
 
Randy Byers, AIA, LEED AP BD+C 
TDSi President 
for the firm 
randy@tdsi.us 

HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
2025.05.30 
Page 3 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
• The general description of the Scope of Services for this project is as follows:  
 
• Architectural services for: 
• Site: 
▪ High Plains Arboretum 
• Total Area: Existing buildings area to remain. 
• Height of Buildings: Existing structures to remain.  
• Number of buildings: This project entails work at the existing Headhouse, Greenhouse and Lath 
House 
• Planning and Zoning Approvals: 
▪ Site Plan Review: Not included or anticipated. 
▪ Engineering Plan Review: Not included or anticipated.  
• Surveying: 
▪ Not included or anticipated. 
• Civil Design: 
▪ Included for limited site work. 
• Drainage Study: 
▪ Not Included or anticipated. 
• Traffic Study: 
▪ Not included or anticipated. 
• Structural System: 
▪ Existing building structure to remain. 
• Structural Design: 
▪ Included for limited structural repairs 
• HVAC: 
▪ Existing HVAC system to remain. 
• Plumbing: 
▪ Plumbing renovation is limited to work noted below. 
• Fire Sprinkler System: 
▪ Not included or anticipated. 
• Electrical: 
▪ Electrical renovation is limited to work noted below. 
• Acoustical Design/ Mechanical Noise & Vibration Control: 
▪ Not included or anticipated. 
• Hazardous Material Testing and Abatement: 
▪ By others. 
 
• To arrive at a more definitive Scope of Work and Scope of Services we took the scope outlined in the 
2024 Facility Condition Assessment of the proposed High Plains Research Station and Arboretum State 
Historic Site for Wyoming State Parks, Historic Sites & Trails , and made the following adjustments: 
 
• Deleted hazardous material abatement – to be contracted separately by the Owner  
• Adjusted tasks (added and deleted) per meeting with the Owner  
 
  
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
           2025.05.30 
 Page 4 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
The Scope of Work for each building is more specifically outlined below : 
 
• Greenhouse: 
• Replace existing wood rafters. (removal of existing by abatement contractor)  
• Replace existing sloped lap glazing. (removal of existing by abatement contractor)  
• Replace operable roof panels. (removal of existing by abatement contractor)  
• Replace operable sidewall glazing panels. (removal of existing by abatement contractor)  
• Repair existing concrete foundations where cracked or damaged and provide parge coat of 
cement or other appropriate coating. 
• Inspect the existing radiant heating system and determine if it can be made operable.  
• Existing Steam or hot water piping from the previous original heating system shall remain  but 
will not be made operable. 
• Install new lighting and receptacles. 
• replace existing doors. (removal of existing by abatement contractor)  
• Repair and repaint existing brackets, trim, and glazed canopies at each end of the 
greenhouse. 
• Reinstall operating mechanisms for operable roof panels and sidewall panels.  
• Remove existing chicken wire from exterior protective frames by abatement contractor. 
Existing steel pipe framing shall remain. 
 
 
SCOPE MATRIX: 
 
  
DESIGN PHASE SERVICES 
(35% SD, 65% DD and 100% CD Documents) 
Architect 
Civil 
Engineer 
Structural 
Engineer 
Mechanical 
Engineer 
Electrical 
Engineer 
Develop a design solution based upon the 
approved project requirements Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Meetings with Owner to review the design solution options  
Phase: 35% Location: Cheyenne Yes No No No No 
Phase: 65% Location: Cheyenne Yes Yes No No No 
Phase: 100% Location: Cheyenne Yes No No No No 
Synthesize the aspects of the design solution 
options preferred by the Owner to develop a 
final solution 
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Upon the Owner’s approval of the design solution, prepare Construction Documents indicating 
requirements for construction of the project, anticipated to include: 
 Drawings Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 Technical specifications for materials, 
systems, etc. Yes Review Yes Yes Yes 
 Written Bidding Requirements No  No No No No 
Total Meetings with Owner (Maximum) 5 1 0 0 0 
Total Site Visits (Maximum) 5 2 1 1 1 
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
2025.05.30 
Page 5 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Remainder of This Page Intentionally Left Blank 
  
BIDDING/NEGOTIATION PHASE SERVICES 
Architect 
Civil 
Engineer 
 
Structural 
Engineer 
Mechanical 
Engineer 
Electrical 
Engineer 
Assist the Owner in obtaining proposals and 
award of the Contract for Construction Yes NA NA NA NA 
Distribution 
of Bid 
Documents 
will be via: 
CDQuest.com ? NA NA NA NA NA NA 
Architect? NA NA NA NA NA NA 
Owner? Yes NA NA NA NA NA 
Coordination of bidding, including:   
 Answering Bidders questions Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
Processing Bidder’s Request for 
Interpretation of Documents and 
Requests for Product Substitutions 
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 Preparation of Addenda, if required Yes Assist Assist Assist Assist 
Attend  
Pre-Bid 
Meeting 
Location: Cheyenne Yes No No No No 
Prepare Bid Tabulation Form? NA NA NA NA NA 
Attend Bid 
Opening Location: Cheyenne Yes NA NA NA NA 
Evaluation of bids and recommendation to 
Owner regarding award of bid Yes Assist Assist Assist Assist 
Prepare Notice of Intent to Award Contract? Assist NA NA NA NA 
Prepare Owner/Contractor Agreement? Yes NA NA NA NA 
Review Contractor's Post Bid Submittals? Assist NA NA NA NA 
Meetings with Owner (Bid Review) 1 0 0 0 0 
Site Visits 0 0 0 0 0 
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
           2025.05.30 
 Page 6 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
CONSTRUCTION ADMINISTRATION (CA) 
PHASE 
Architect 
Civil 
Engineer 
 
Structural 
Engineer 
Mechanical 
Engineer 
Electrical 
Engineer 
Maximum Length of Construction: 26 weeks spread over the schedule noted above 
Attend Pre-
Construction 
Conference 
Location: Cheyenne 1 1 
 
0 
 
0 0 
Owner/Architect
/Contractor 
(OAC) Meetings 
Frequency: Every 2 
Weeks 
Yes, 
with 
Periodic 
Site 
Visits 
No No No No 
Periodic site visits over the construction phase 
(generally with OAC) 
10 max 
over 20 
weeks 
4 max 
 
1 max 
 
1 max 2 max 
Preparation of Field Report with photographs 
or other documentation as appropriate for 
each site visit 
Yes Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes Yes 
Review of contractor’s submittals Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Respond to Requests for Information (RFI’s) 
from the contractor (Reasonable Amount) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Substantial Completion Inspections 1 max 1 max 1 max 1 max 1 max 
Preparation of Punch List 1 max 1 max 1 max 1 max 1 max 
Final Completion Inspections 1 max 1 max 0 0 0 
Additional Meetings with Owner 1 0 0 0 0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POST CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
Architect 
Civil 
Engineer 
 
Structural 
Engineer 
Mechanical 
Engineer 
Electrical 
Engineer 
Integration of Contractor Provided Record 
Drawing Information into CAD Drawings No No No No No 
Warranty Inspections 
11th Month Inspections 1 0 0 0 0 
Meetings with Owner (if required) 1 0 0 0 0 
 
 
PROJECT DELIVERY 
 
• Project Delivery: Design-Bid-Build. 
• Depending on final schedule and coordination with the City, a multi-phased project is anticipated 
with separate bid packages and the potential for award to multiple contractors. 
• All work is proposed to be bid and awarded in 2025. 
 
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
2025.05.30 
Page 7 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
CONSULTANTS 
 
• The services of following outside consultants, as defined in the Scope of Services noted above, are 
included in this proposal and the fees noted herein: 
 
CIVIL ENGINEER 
 
 
Darci Hendon, PE, Principal 
Theena Engineering 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
 
STRUCTURAL 
ENGINEER  
Jera Likely, PE, Senior Engineer 
Martin / Martin Wyoming 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
MECHANICAL 
ENGINEER 
 
Justin Montgomery, PE, Principal 
DesignPoint Engineering 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEER 
 
Mike Gust, PE, Principal 
Gust Engineering 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 
 
 
If during the course of the project, the services of additional outside consultants are deemed necessary, are 
requested by the Owner, or are required by the authorities having jurisdiction over the Project, such services 
will be considered a Reimbursable Expense.  We will coordinate with the Owner to add consultants to our 
team that are mutually agreeable to both the Owner and our firm.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Remainder of This Page Intentionally Left Blank  
 
 
 
  

HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
           2025.05.30 
 Page 8 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
ANTICIPATED PROJECT COST AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES FEES 
• To arrive at a more definitive Scope of Work, Scope of Services and Fee Proposal we took the scope and 
Estimate of Probable Construction Costs from the 2024 Facility Condition Assessment of the proposed 
High Plains Research Station and Arboretum State Historic Site for Wyoming State Parks, Historic Sites 
& Trails, and made the following adjustments: 
 
• Deleted hazardous material abatement – to be contracted separately by the Owner  
• Adjusted tasks (added and deleted) per meeting with the Owner  
 
 GREENHOUSE 
SCOPE & FEES   
Original Scope Anticipated Renovation Cost INC Abatement & Fees  $1,107,607 
Revised Scope Anticipated Renovation Cost INC Fees NIC Abatement  $605,369 
  
  
Original Architectural Fees Extracted from FCA  $101,483 
Revised Architectural Fees   
Base Fee $154,242 
Less Donated Time Already Expensed NA 
Final Fee $154,242 
  
  
35% Documents Phase (Schematic Design (SD) Phase) $15,924 
65% Documents Phase (Design Development (DD) Phase) $37,811 
100% Documents Phase (Construction Documents (CD) Phase)  $53,735 
Bidding/Negotiation (BN) Phase $6,962 
Construction Administration (CA) Phase $39,811  
 
TOTAL FEES $154,243 
 
It is recognized that neither the Architect nor the Owner has control over the cost of labor, materials or equipment, 
over the Contractor's or Subcontractor's methods of determining bid prices, or over competitive bidding, market or 
negotiating conditions. Accordingly, the Architect cannot and does not warrant or represent that bids or negotiated 
prices will not vary from any Estimates of Probable Construction or Renovatio n Cost or any evaluation prepared by the 
Architect. 
 
 
The Remainder of This Page Intentionally Left Blank  
 
 
  
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
2025.05.30 
Page 9 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
ANTICIPATED PROJECT SCHEDULE 
• For this project we propose to provide the Architectural and Engineering services described herein, based 
upon the noted scope, in accordance with the following schedule. 
 
 GREENHOUSE 
SCHEDULE       
City Council 1st Reading 6/9     
City Council Finance 6/17     
City Council Final Approval 6/23     
Contract Signature 6/24     
Notice To Proceed 6/25     
35% Design Complete 8/1 37 days 
65% Design Complete 9/11 41 days 
100% Design Complete 10/22 41 days 
Legal Advertisement 1 10/22     
Legal Advertisement 2 10/29     
Pre-Bid Meeting 11/3     
Final Addenda 11/6     
Bid Opening 11/13     
Hazardous Material Abatement Spring 2026 
City Council 1st Reading 11/24     
City Council Finance 12/2     
City Council Final Approval 12/8     
Contract Signature 12/9     
Notice To Proceed 12/10     
Renovation Complete 2026 
 
 
TDSi RATE SCHEDULE 
 
• TDSi Hourly Rates are as follows for 2025: 
 
• Staff Member Rate Per Hour 
• Randy Byers, AIA, LEED APBD+C – TDSi Principal, Architect ...................................................... $ 215 
• Clint Taylor, AIA, PE, LEED APBD+C - TDSi Associate, Architect ................................................. $ 165 
• Will Byers, AIA Associate - TDSi Associate, Project Manager/Intern Architect .......................... $ 140 
• Stephanie Lowe, Project Manager, Historic Preservation Specialist  ................................ ....... $ 130 
 
• Legal testimony will be invoiced at 2 times the above noted hourly rate; Research 
and consultation as an Expert Witness, and time giving depositions will be billed at 
1.5 times the above noted hourly rate. 
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
           2025.05.30 
 Page 10 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
 
ADDITIONAL SERVICES 
 
• Additional Services will be invoiced at the Hourly Rates current at the time the services are provided.  
 
• If the professional services covered by this proposal have not been completed within the stated duration 
noted, through no fault of the Architect, additional services shall apply. Architect shall give written notice to 
the owner if additional services are anticipated, prior to additional services occurring.   
 
 
CONSULTANT SERVICES 
 
• Consultant fees not included within basic scope of services, and reimbursable expenses will be billed at cost 
plus 10% markup. 
 
 
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES 
 
• Expenses incurred in connection with the project will be billed at actual cost plus a 10% markup.  
• Examples of such expenses are: 
• out of town travel and subsistence expenses; 
• reproduction costs for documents for other than the Architect’s use or record;  
• postage and shipping charges. 
 
Hourly Rates and Reimbursable Expenses Rates are subject to review  
and change on a periodic basis, or as circumstances require.  
 
BILLING SCHEDULE 
 
• E-Invoice Format - All invoices will be emailed to the Client, with an option for the Client to pay online. 
 
 
PRODUCTS OF SERVICE 
 
• In general, the anticipated Products of Service include the following: 
 
• At Completion of 35% Documents Phase (Schematic Design Phase): 
• Drawings 
• At Completion of 65% Documents Phase (Design Development Phase):  
• Drawings 
• Technical Specifications (outline) 
• At Completion of 100% Documents Phase (Construction Documents Phase):  
• Drawings 
• Technical Specifications 
• Construction Administration Phase: 
• Architect’s Field Reports 
• Post Construction (Warranty Period) Phase: 
• Record Drawings 
• 11th Month Inspection Report 
 
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
2025.05.30 
Page 11 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T) 307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
SERVICES NOT INCLUDED 
 
• The Architect's fees do not include the following: 
• Preparation of Planning & Zoning applications, maps, etc. including annexation, Site Plan 
Review, etc. 
• Surveying 
• Hazardous Material (Asbestos, Lead, Mold, etc.) Testing / Inspection, Abatement Design or 
Abatement 
• Environmental Investigations (Phase I or Phase II) 
• Geotechnical Investigations 
• Acoustical Design 
▪ Interior Acoustic Design 
▪ Sound Isolation Design 
▪ Mechanical Noise & Vibration Control 
• Landscape or Irrigation System Design 
• Consultant other than those specifically listed above 
• Special Consultants 
• Furniture Fixtures & Equipment Design or Documents 
• Preparation of documents for Approvals required by Governmental Agencies, except as noted. 
• Manual Distribution of Bid Documents 
• Plan Review Fees 
• Building Permit Fees 
• Printing, except as specifically noted herein 
• Construction Testing Fees 
• Specialty Inspections 
• Modifications to the documents or repair detailing that are the result of contractor quality 
control deficiencies 
• Models 
• Post Construction Services, except as noted herein 
• Presentation or Meetings with Government Officials, Financial Institutions, etc. except as noted . 
• Utility water, sewer, or natural gas piping further than 5 feet outside the building including  
landscape irrigation. 
• Ground source heat pump system design including loop field design.  
• Fire sprinkler design. 
• Energy modeling. 
• Life cycle cost analysis of multiple mechanical systems  
• LEED Documentation 
• Detailed Quantity Take-off Construction cost estimates 
• Commissioning of the mechanical systems 
• Ground Vibration Testing and Recommendations  
• Testing and analysis of ground borne environmental vibrations  
• Exterior Sound Isolation Design  
• Detailed Analysis of Environmental Noise (CADNA Model) 
• Security Design 
• Travel outside Cheyenne, Wyoming 
• Professional Liability Coverage beyond limits noted below  
• Preparation of Nominations to the National Historic Register  
 
The services noted above may be requested by the Owner as Additional Services. 
 
HIGH PLAINS ARBORETUM RENOVATION - GREENHOUSE 
           2025.05.30 
 Page 12 of 12 
 
TDSi   1610 Pioneer Avenue                                Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 T )  307.775.9970  www.tdsi.us 
LIMIT OF LIABILITY 
 
• The Owner agrees, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to limit the Architect’s total liability to the Owner, 
and to all the construction contractors and subcontractors on the project, for any and all injuries, claims, 
losses, costs, damages, or claims expenses from any source or causes, so that the total aggregate liability to 
the Architect to all those named shall be limited to the Architect’s net fees, excluding consultants and 
reimbursable expenses. Such causes include, but are not limited to, negligence, error or omissions, strict 
liability, breach of contract or warranty. 
 
 
INSURANCE 
 
• Professional Liability Insurance: 
• TDSi currently carries a Professional Liability insurance policy provided by CNA through Victor 
Insurance Managers Inc. / Continental Casualty Company. The policy is a “claims -made” policy with 
a maximum limit of liability of $1,000,000 per claim, with an aggregate limit of $2,000,000 per year. 
Our firm has never had a claim against our policy. A Certificate of Insurance will  be provided upon 
written request. 
 
• General Business Liability Insurance: 
• TDSi carries a General Business Liability policy provided by AMCO Insurance Company and Allied 
Insurance Company of America. A Certificate of Insurance that enumerates the various coverage 
limits will be provided upon written request. 
 
 
TERM OF PROPOSAL 
 
• This proposal will be valid 30 days from issuance. 
 
 
 
Submitted By: 
 
 
 
 
 
Randy Byers, AIA, LEED AP BD+C 
TDSi President 
for the firm 
randy@tdsi.us 
 