City of Cheyenne          
July 16, 2025 
 
 
 HATHAWAY BUILDING, 2 nd FLOOR      2300 CAPITOL AVENUE     CHEYENNE, WY  82002      WEB SITE https://audit.wyo.gov/public-funds 
 
 
 
 
S T A T E  O F  W Y O M I N G 
D E P A R T M E N T  O F  A U D I T 
 
PUBLIC FUNDS DIVISION  
(307) 777-7798 
richard.cummings@wyo.gov 
 
 
Mark Gordon 
Governor 
 
Justin Chavez 
Director 
 
Rich Cummings 
Administrator  
 
July 16, 2025 
 
 
 
City Council 
c/o Mayor Collins 
City of Cheyenne 
2101 O’Neil Ave 
Cheyenne, WY  82001 
 
Dear Mayor Collins: 
 
This audit report is issued pursuant to the requirements of W.S. 9-1-507(a)(v) which authorizes the 
Department of Audit to audit cities. 
 
Objective:  The purposes of our audit were to evaluate: 
 
1. Appropriateness of credit card usage 
2. Adequacy of internal controls over credit card usage. 
 
Results:  Based on the procedures identified in the Scope and Methodology section, the City of 
Cheyenne (City) had extensive internal controls governing the use of credit cards resulting in 
adequate oversight and no identified inappropriate use.   
 
There were several less significant internal control weaknesses identified and we conveyed those to 
the City via separate written communication.   
 
Internal Control Criteria:   Internal control evaluations are based on the GAO Standards for 
Internal Control in the Federal Government (Green book).  We also compare industry standards for 
Information Technology and Accounting to the audited entity’s internal processes significant to the 
objectives. 
 
Scope and Methodology :  We conducted this performance audit in accordance with generally 
accepted government auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and 
conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that the evidence obtained provides a 
reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. 
 
The scope of the audit was from July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024.  A CPA audit was also conducted for 
the same audit period, however, the financial audit focused on the whether the financial statements 
presented a true and fair view of the City, whereas our performance audit focused on credit cards and 
City of Cheyenne           
July 16, 2025 
 
 
Page 2 
 
related internal controls.  We interviewed the City Treasurer, Deputy Treasurer, Purchasing 
Manager, and Accounts Payable staff from the City.  The following tests were accomplished during 
the performance of the audit: 
 
 Vouched randomly selected credit card expenditures to supporting documentation to verify 
accuracy and proper authorization,   
 Interviewed key personnel to identify the internal control processes significant to the audit 
objectives,  
 Tested key internal controls to determine whether they were operating as intended. 
 
Unless otherwise noted, testing was performed on a random sample basis and were projectable. 
 
This report is intended solely for the use of the specified users listed; however, this report is a matter 
of public record and its distribution is not limited. 
 
 
 
Public Funds 
 
cc: Governor’s Office   
County Clerk 
Each Council Member   
Legislative Service Office: 
c/o: Corporations, Elections, and Political Subdivisions Committee 
c/o: Management Audit Committee 
City of Cheyenne           
July 16, 2025 
 
 
Page 3 
 
 
Appendix:  Sampling Methodology 
 
 
 
Sample size determination for testing is influenced by the controls and 
the inherent risk related to credit card usage.  The key controls were 
identified through interviews and a review of policies and procedures 
manuals, and Wyoming statute.  The key controls were included while 
testing for appropriateness and approval of credit card expenditures.  
 
Sample sizes were selected from the populations using a means 
estimation formula.  We took a non-statistical, random sample of the 
population using IDEA, a data analysis software.  Division policies 
require audit staff to determine the estimation of errors based on 
controls evaluations. 
 
 
 
 
Area Sampled Sample 
Method 
Items 
Sampled 
Testing 
Population 
Sample 
Size 
% 
Tested 
Credit Card Expenditures a.k.a. 
(P-Card Transactions) 
Random P-Card 
Transactions 
3,308 213 6% 
 
 