CITY  
TREASURER  
- 
PURCHASING  
710 S. Lions Park Dr. 
2nd Floor 
Cheyenne, WY 82001 
(307) 773-1045 
cheyennecity.org 
 
MEMORANDUM  
 
TO:  Mayor Patrick Collins, and City Council 
FROM:  TJ Barttelbort, Purchasing Manager 
DATE:  July 8, 2026 
SUBJECT: Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Samsara 
for Camera Hardware and Software  for Cheyenne Transit Program 
Transit Vehicles 
 
Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Samsara for Camera 
Hardware and Software for Cheyenne Transit Program Transit Vehicles .  The purchase 
includes a 36 Month License Term. 
 
This is a single source purchase, therefore no bids were requested.  Samsara is the sole 
provider of their camera software system and connected hardware. 
 
The total amount of the purchase is $133,044.72. 
 
Funding: Transit Program Funds 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 


Samsara Inc. | www.samsara.com  
1 De Haro Street, San Francisco, CA 94107 
 
 
 
 
Samsara Inc. (“Samsara”) provides a unique solution for physical operations through its Connected 
Operations Cloud. This allows organizations to harness Internet of Things (IoT) data to develop actionable 
insights and improve their safety, efficiency, and sustainability.  
 
Samsara allows customers to use a single physical operations management provider to implement a 
purpose-built solution instead of sourcing, integrating and adopting point solutions across a variety of 
vendors. This is possible through Samsara’s proprietary data platform, which offers natively-built integration 
for all of the customer’s logistic needs, including but not limited to:  
 
Fleet Operations 
● Real-Time Vehicle Telematics (including GPS tracking, routing and dispatch, fuel efficiency 
management, electric vehicle usage, maintenance, and diagnostics capabilities) 
● AI-Enabled Video-Based Safety (including detection of high-risk driving behavior, video records to 
exonerate drivers following incidents, and coaching workflows to improve training and safety) 
● Camera Connectors (includes cables to pull third -party camera feeds into Samsara’s Cloud 
Dashboard) 
● Apps and Driver Workflows (including streamlined regulatory compliance, maintenance 
inspections, compliance logs, and messaging workflows)   
 
Industry-Agnostic Operations 
● Equipment Monitoring (including asset tracking and diagnostics for loss and theft control, utilization 
reports, and preventative maintenance) 
● Site Visibility (including remote viewing for IP cameras, improved site security and incident 
response times, and proprietary AI algorithms to power alerting and search features) 
 
Taken individually, no other provider offers the same feature set, performance, and reliability for any of 
these applications. Combined, Samsara allows its customers to access all this data with a single sign in 
through its proprietary software dashboard, which can be tailored through API development by the 
organization or third parties. This unique “single pane of glass” approach allows for unparalleled visibility 
into the organization’s operations without the need to switch between discrete programs, a un ique 
advantage not offered by other providers. Samsara develops its own ruggedized hardware, which can be 
quickly and easily installed on site by its customers, and also allows customers to plug directly into OEM 
systems without Samsara’s hardware to maxim ize convenience and savings. Only Samsara offers these 
comprehensive and customizable solutions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
 
Adam Eltoukhy 
Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer 
 

REQUEST TO PURCHASE OVER $75,000.00 
Consideration to Purchase between the City of Cheyenne, and Samsara for Camera Hardware 
and Software for Cheyenne Transit Program Transit Vehicles.  The total amount of the purchase 
is $133,044.72.  This is a single source purchase, therefore no bids were requested.   
 
This will be reviewed by the City Council Finance Committee on  July 21, 2026 and voted on at 
the July 27, 2026 City Council meeting. 
 
TJ Barttelbort, Purchasing Manager 
City of Cheyenne, Wyoming 
(307) 773-1045 
 
Published in:  Wyoming Tribune-Eagle 
Dates: July 10 & 17, 2026 
Cost Overview
License Term: 36 Months
Total License Cost over 36 Months USD $132,549.12
Hardware and Accessories Included
 
Shipping and Handling*  USD $495.60
Total Sales Tax*  USD $0.00
Total Contract Value1 $133,044.72
First Invoice1 $44,678.64
 Recurring Invoice2 $44,183.04 
Quote #: Q-2526292
Issued Date: 06-23-2026
Expires 07-31-2026
Order Number: S-2789986
Prepared For:
City of Cheyenne, WY
220 North College Dr
Cheyenne,
Wyoming
82001
Cheyenne, Wyoming
82001
Prepared By:
Sam Popky
sam.popky@samsara.com
 
  
 
Payment Information:
Payment Method: Credit Card/ACH Debit
Payment Terms: Due in advance
Payment Frequency: Direct Annual
Estimated Ship Date: 07-10-2026
1Estimated value, actual invoice amount may change based on product fulfilment 
date, Includes estimated sales tax
2Amount displayed is for products purchased in this order only, Includes estimated 
sales tax
*If shipping is “Pending” - Amount is pending due to size of order; Shipping and 
Handling subject to change
*Sales tax subject to change: If Sales tax is “Pending” – Final amount will be 
provided prior to payment 
3% fee only applies to US - (CAD, MX, EMEA are exempt)
Product Overview
SHIP TO Erin Johnson
322 W Lincolnway
Cheyenne, Wyoming, 82001-4476
United States
Hardware & Accessories Net Unit Price Total Price
AI Multicam
HW-MC-AIM4• QTY: 44
Included Included
Cable harness for AI Multicam
CBL-MC-AIM4• QTY: 44
Included Included
CARB Executive Order Sticker and Instruction Insert
ACC-VG-ASTKR• QTY: 24
Included Included
Vehicle IoT Gateway, model VG55
HW-VG55-NA• QTY: 22
Included Included
Enhanced VG Series J1939 or J1708 (9-pin)
CBL-VG-CJ1939• QTY: 22
Included Included
Dual-facing dash-camera, series 4
HW-CM34• QTY: 22
Included Included
Total Price: Included
Licenses
Annual Unit 
Price
Total Annual 
Price
Telematics Premier Public Sector
LIC-VG-PREMIER-PS• QTY: 22
$270.00 $5,940.00
Safety Enterprise (Dual Camera)
LIC-CM-D-ENTERPRISE• QTY: 22
$586.32 $12,899.04
LIC-MC-AIM8
LIC-MC-AIM8• QTY: 22
$1,152.00 $25,344.00
Total Price: $44,183.04
Billing Details:
Bill To: Billing Contact::
City of Cheyenne, WY
220 North College Dr
Cheyenne, Wyoming, 82001
Name: Erin Johnson
Title:Director, Transit
Billing Email: ejohnson@cheyennecity.org
Phone Number: 3076376384
Does your organization require a purchase order (PO) in order to process payment to vendors?  
\Picklist_1\
If yes, please provide the PO Number: /PO_number_1/
If your organization requires invoice submission via an electronic invoice portal, please email any 
e-invoicing requirements to billingsupport@samsara.com. 
Please email any tax documentation to billingsupport@samsara.com.
Thank you for considering Samsara
Samsara provides real-time visibility, business-relevant tools, and powerful analytics that enable 
customers to increase the productivity of their fleets and reduce operating costs. A solution for 
your fleet is proposed below.
What is included?
Samsara’s fleet tracking solution includes hardware accessories and a per-gateway license. 
Gateway licenses provide all ongoing elements of the service, including:
- Real-time location and vehicle telematics
- Dashboard access with unlimited administrator accounts 
- Driver App for iOS and Android devices with unlimited driver accounts
- Over-the-air software feature upgrades
- API access as it relates to features for integration with 3rd party systems 
- Maintenance and phone support
Samsara does not include hidden costs in its licenses. If you want access to Samsara’s full set of 
fleet features--including but not limited to WiFi hotspot and ELD capabilities--you will need to 
upgrade your license. Samsara reserves the right to audit usage of features unrelated to the 
solution as well as remove them from the Samsara Dashboard.
Payment Terms
This order form includes a license fee for the Samsara Software associated with the Hardware 
to be paid annually beginning on the License Start Date and, if applicable, a one-time Hardware 
cost to be paid upfront as of the license start date. The annual fees are payable by recurring wire 
transfer. All transfers made by credit card are subject to a processing fee up to 3%, subject to 
applicable law. Late payments are subject to a 1.5% per month late fee. If license payments are 
delinquent by 30 days, Samsara may suspend the Service until late payments are remitted.
License Term
The license term for the Samsara Software licenses purchased under this Order Form begins on 
the day Samsara activates the applicable Samsara Software license by providing you a claim 
number and access to the Hosted Software (“License Start Date”). If Hardware associated with a 
then-unactivated Samsara Software license will be shipped to you under this Order Form, such 
Samsara Software license will be activated on the day the Samsara Hardware ships. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are renewing the license term for a previously-activated 
Samsara Software license under this Order Form, the License Start Date for the renewal license 
term shall be the day that Samsara extends your access to the Hosted Software for the renewal 
license term. Samsara Hardware requires a valid license to function.
Samsara may ship Hardware under this Order Form subject to a schedule as mutually agreed 
between the Parties or as determined by Samsara. By signing this Order Form, you confirm that 
each “Ship To” delivery address set forth herein is accurate and that any individual accepting 
delivery at that address is authorized to do so on your behalf. To the extent such Hardware is 
associated with then-unactivated Samsara Software licenses, the Samsara Software license 
term for each such Hardware device will start on the day that device ships regardless of the 
shipment schedule for the other such Hardware devices. If all such Hardware is shipped in one 
shipment, the license term for all such Hardware will be the full license term under this Order 
Form. If such Hardware is shipped in multiple shipments, only the license term of such 
Hardware in the initial shipment will be such full license term. The license term of the remaining 
such Hardware shipped after the initial shipment will be set to match the then-remaining license 
term of the initial shipment, so that the license term for all such Hardware under this Order Form 
expires on the same date. The total cost of the licenses for such Hardware shipped after the 
initial shipment will be pro-rated based on their actual license term, rounded up to the nearest 
month, as compared to the full license term under this Order Form. Certain payment amounts 
under this Order Form assume that the entire order is fulfilled at the same time and are subject 
to potential reduction based on the actual schedule of order fulfillment.
You agree that you will only use the features included with the Samsara Software licenses 
purchased under this Order Form (“Licensed Scope”).  Samsara reserves the right to audit usage 
of Samsara Software and to remove your access to such features beyond the Licensed Scope 
(for example, the licensed feature scope or licensed user count, as applicable) at any time.  If 
you would like to use features beyond the Licensed Scope, you are required to purchase the 
applicable Samsara Software licenses and if applicable install the applicable Hardware that 
include such scope. If Samsara becomes aware that you are using features beyond the Licensed 
Scope, Samsara reserves the right to charge you for the applicable Samsara Software licenses 
that include such Licensed Scope at list price, and you agree to immediately pay such amounts.  
Samsara further reserves the right to change, discontinue, or remove features included in a 
Samsara Software license at any time.  
You acknowledge and agree that, during your license term, you may not downgrade your 
Samsara Software license plan to a lower Samsara Software license plan (e.g., downgrading 
your “Enterprise” license to a “Premier” license).
Support And Warranty
Samsara stands behind its Products. During the applicable warranty period, defective Hardware 
will be remedied pursuant to our Hardware Warranty Policy at 
www.samsara.com/support/hardware-warranty. Additional support information can be found at 
www.samsara.com/support.
Terms
Unless otherwise set forth herein, your use and access of the Hardware, Products, and Services 
specified herein are governed by Samsara’s standard terms of service found at 
https://www.samsara.com/legal/public-sector-customers-platform-terms-of-service/, unless 
the Parties have entered into a separate terms of service agreement and/or a separate terms of 
service agreement is attached to the Order Form, in which case such separate terms of service 
agreement shall govern (the 'Terms of Service') provided that notwithstanding anything stated in 
the Terms of Service to the contrary, Customer agrees the following sections from Samsara’s 
standard terms of service found at https://www.samsara.com/legal/public-sector-customers-
platform-terms-of-service/ shall apply: License (Section 4), Product Updates (Section 7), Data 
Protection Addendum (Section 10.3), Non-Samsara Products (Section 14), and Hardware 
Warranty (Section 17). You agree to be bound by the Terms of Service, and any capitalized terms 
not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Terms of Service. The terms and 
conditions of the Terms of Service and this Order Form are the exclusive agreement of the 
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and no other terms or conditions, including 
those associated with any Customer payment portal or onboarding of Samsara as a Customer 
vendor, shall be binding upon Samsara or otherwise have any force or effect.
To the extent Samsara allows you to make subsequent purchases of Products via Purchase 
Order without a corresponding Quote, you agree that (i) such Purchase Order shall be subject to 
the terms and conditions of this Order Form, including with respect to payment and license 
terms, as well as the applicable Terms of Service; and (ii) to the extent there is a conflict 
between such Purchase Order and this Order Form, including with respect to payment and 
license terms, as well as the applicable Terms of Service, the terms of this Order Form shall 
prevail, and no additional terms included in such Purchase Order that are not included in this 
Order Form shall apply. You acknowledge and agree that any reference to a Purchase Order in 
this Order Form is solely for your convenience in record keeping, and the existence of a 
Purchase Order or any delivery of Products to you following receipt of any Purchase Order shall 
not be deemed an acknowledgement of or agreement to any terms or conditions associated 
with any such Purchase Order or in any way be deemed to modify, alter, supersede or 
supplement the Terms of Service or this Order Form.
Notification of Confidentiality
You agree that the pricing and payment terms specified in this Order Form shall (i) be held in 
strict confidence; (ii) not be disclosed to any Samsara competitor or other entity, except as pre-
approved in writing by Samsara; and (iii) not be used except to evaluate the suitability of the 
Samsara Products for your business. You will immediately notify Samsara in the event of any 
unauthorized use or disclosure under these terms. Violation of these obligations will cause 
irreparable harm to Samsara for which Samsara may obtain compensatory and timely injunctive 
relief from a court, as well as any other remedies that may be available, including recovery of all 
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs incurred in seeking such remedies. Your obligations 
specified herein shall last until the pricing and payment terms herein are, through no fault or 
action by you, public. This Order Form is a legally binding agreement between you (“Customer”) 
and Samsara Inc. (“Samsara”). IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Customer has caused this Order Form to 
be executed by its duly authorized representative. 
I confirm acceptance of this Order Form on behalf of the Customer identified herein and represent and 
warrant that I have full and complete authority to bind the Customer to this Order Form, including all 
terms and conditions herein." "Please confirm acceptance of this Order Form by signing below:
Signature \s1\
Print Name: \n1\
Date: \d1\
Samsara Website Terms and Conditions of Use 
Last Updated: April 2023 
 
Samsara Inc., a Delaware corporation with a principal place of business at 1 De Haro Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94107, and its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively, “Samsara”) makes information, 
products, and services available on this website (the “Site”), subject to the following terms and 
conditions of use (“Website Terms”). Before using this Site, please read these Website Terms carefully. 
Throughout the Website Terms, “we”, “us” and “our” refer to Samsara, and “you” or “your” refer to you 
personally (i.e., the individual who reads and agrees to be bound by these Website Terms), and, if you 
access this Site on behalf of a corporation or other legal entity, you and such corporation or other legal 
entity on whose behalf you access the Site. 
 
1. ACCEPTANCE OF TERMS 
 
By using the Site, you agree to be bound by these Website Terms. If you do not agree to these Website 
Terms, please do not use the Site. Samsara provides the information, products and services on the Site 
to you, conditioned upon your acceptance, without modification, of the Website Terms contained 
herein. Your use of the Site constitutes your agreement with such Website Terms. 
 
We reserve the right to change these Website Terms, in whole or in part, in our own discretion at any 
time. You can determine when these Website Terms were last revised by referring to the “LAST 
UPDATED” legend at the top of these Website Terms. Such modifications shall be effective immediately 
upon the linking of modified Website Terms to the Site, and, if you possess an account through the Site 
for which you have provided an e-mail address (“Account”), by communicating the modifications to you 
either 
 
(i) when you log in to the Site or 
 
(ii) by sending the modifications to the e-mail address that you have provided to us. 
 
You agree to comply with, and be bound by, any such modifications 
 
(i) by continuing to use or access the Site after modified Website Terms are posted to the Site or 
 
(ii) if you possess an Account, by not requesting to terminate your Account within seven (7) days after 
receiving a notice of modifications as described above. 
 
In addition, your use of a particular Samsara service may be subject to specific guidelines or rules 
(“Service-specific Rules”) posted from time to time and incorporated by this reference into the Website 
Terms. If you do not accept our Website Terms or any Service-specific Rules, you should refrain from 
accessing the Site and its services. If we change any Service-specific Rules, we will post the changed 
version on the location where those Service-specific Rules normally appear, reference the change on the 
primary page for that service and include a link to the previous version of the terms or rules. 
 
Samsara reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or 
permanently, the Site or any service (or any part thereof). Samsara shall not be liable to any user or 
other third party for any such modification, suspension or discontinuance except as expressly provided 
herein. 
 
2. U.S.-BASED WEBSITE 
 
The Site is controlled and operated by Samsara from the United States, and, except as expressly set 
forth herein, is not intended to subject Samsara to the laws or jurisdiction of any state, country or 
territory other than that of the United States. Samsara does not represent or warrant that the Site or 
any part thereof is appropriate or available for use in any particular jurisdiction other than the United 
States. In choosing to access the Site, you do so on your own initiative and at your own risk, and are 
responsible for complying with all local laws, rules and regulations. You are also subject to U.S. export 
controls and are responsible for any violations of such controls, including any U.S. embargoes or other 
federal rules and regulations restricting exports. Samsara may limit the Site’s availability, in whole or in 
part, to any person, geographic area or jurisdiction Samsara chooses, at any time and in Samsara’s sole 
discretion. By using the Site, you hereby certify that you are not (a) a citizen or permanent resident of 
any country on which the United States has embargoed goods, technology and/or services (e.g., Cuba, 
Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria, or Crimea), and (b) on any of the relevant U.S. Government Lists of 
prohibited or restricted persons, including but not limited to the Treasury Department's List of Specially 
Designated Nationals, and the Commerce Department's List of Denied Persons or Entity List, and that 
your use of Samsara products and services is in compliance with the applicable U.S. export control and 
economic sanctions laws and regulations. For further information on the export controls and sanctions 
laws see, http://www.bis.doc.gov/index.htm and http://www.treasury.gov/about/organizational-
structure/offices/Pages/Office-of-Foreign-Assets-Control.aspx. 
 
3. REGISTRATION 
 
You may be required to register with Samsara in order to access certain areas of the Site. In the course 
of registration, you must: 
 
(a) provide true, accurate, current and complete information on the registration form and 
 
(b) maintain and promptly update such registration information as necessary. 
If, after investigation, we have reasonable grounds to suspect that any user's information is untrue, 
inaccurate, not current or incomplete, we may suspend or terminate that user's account and prohibit 
any and all current or future use of the Site (or any portion thereof) by that user. You may not use a user 
name (or e-mail address) that is already being used by someone else; that may be construed as 
impersonating another person; that belongs to another person; that violates the intellectual property or 
other rights of any person; that is offensive; or that Samsara rejects for any other reason in its sole 
discretion. Your user name and password are for your personal use only, and not for use by any other 
person. You are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of any password you may use to access 
the Site, and agree not to lend or transfer your password or user name, or lend or otherwise transfer 
your use of or access to the Site, to any third party. You are fully responsible for all interactions with the 
Site that occur in connection with your password or user name. You agree to notify Samsara 
immediately of any unauthorized use of your password or user name or any other breach of security 
related to your account or the Site, and to ensure that you “log off”/exit from your account with the Site 
(if applicable) at the end of each session. Samsara is not liable for any loss or damage arising from a 
user's failure to comply with this Section, including any loss or damage arising from any user's failure to 
 
(a) immediately notify Samsara of any unauthorized use of his or her password or account or any other 
breach of security and 
 
(b) ensure that he or she “logs off”/exits from his or her account at the end of each session. 
 
4. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS; LICENSE GRANTS 
 
4.1. Software. Any software that is made available to download by or through this Site (“Software”) is 
the copyrighted work of Samsara, its suppliers and/or its licensors. Your rights to access, download, and 
use any Software made available for download from the Site will be subject to your agreement to the 
terms and conditions of the software license agreement identified on the site and/or in the Software 
(each, a “Product Terms of Service”). You may not install any Software that is accompanied by or 
includes a Product Terms of Service unless you have agreed to the applicable Product Terms of Service. 
Except to the extent expressly permitted in any applicable Product Terms of Service, or expressly 
authorized under applicable law overriding any of the following restrictions, you agree that you will not 
sell, lease, lend, convey, transmit, modify, adapt, translate, prepare derivative works from, decompile, 
reverse engineer, disassemble or attempt to derive source code from the Software. Any reproduction, 
redistribution or other use or exploitation of the Software not in accordance with the Product Terms of 
Service and/or these Website Terms is expressly prohibited by law, and may result in civil and criminal 
penalties. 
 
4.2. Content. Unless otherwise specifically noted, the information, content, data, text, graphics, images, 
videos, documents and other materials made available through the Site (“Content”) are and shall remain 
the property of Samsara, its licensors and/or suppliers, and are protected by copyright, trademark, 
patent, and/or other proprietary rights and laws. Subject to your compliance with these Website Terms, 
solely for so long as you are permitted by Samsara to access and use the Site, and provided that you 
keep intact all copyright and other proprietary notices, you may 
 
(a) view any Content on any single computer solely for personal, informational, non-commercial 
purposes, except as expressly permitted in writing with respect to particular Content signed by an 
authorized representative of Samsara and 
 
(b) download and print the materials that Samsara specifically makes available for downloading (such as 
white papers or user documentation) from this Site solely for personal, informational, non-commercial 
purposes, provided that such Content may not be modified or altered in any way. Unless otherwise 
specifically permitted for any particular Content, you may not use, download, upload, copy, print, 
display, perform, reproduce, publish, license, post, transmit, rent, lease, modify, loan, sell, distribute, or 
create derivative works based on, the Site or any Content, in whole or in part, without the express prior 
written authorization of Samsara. 
 
4.3. Community Content. Your rights to access, use, copy and distribute any user and community-
generated information or content (including other users’ Contributions, as defined below, or third-party 
apps or content made available on apps.Samsara.com, dev.Samsara.com or answers.Samsara.com, 
collectively “Community Content”) is subject to the relevant terms and conditions or license agreement 
attached to such Community Content. If there are no specific terms and conditions or license agreement 
attached to such Community Content, the licenses and restrictions under Section 4.2 above will apply. 
 
4.4. Proprietary Rights. Elements of the Site are protected by copyright, trade dress, trademark, unfair 
competition, and/or other laws and may not be copied or imitated in whole or in part. No logo, graphic, 
sound, or image from the Site may be copied or retransmitted unless expressly permitted in writing by 
Samsara. Nothing contained on the Site should be construed as granting, by implication, estoppel or 
otherwise, any license or right to use any of Samsara’s or its suppliers’ trade names, trademarks or 
service marks without Samsara’s express prior written consent. “Samsara” and other Samsara logos, 
trademarks, service marks, and product and service names are the intellectual property of Samsara. 
 
 
5. INFORMATION SUBMITTED THROUGH THE SITE 
 
Samsara’s Privacy Policy (the “Privacy Policy”) addresses our processing of personal data you submit 
through the site. Please refer to the Privacy Policy for information about the personal data we collect 
about you, how we use and protect this personal data, and the choices you can make about how we 
may use your personal data 
 
You represent and warrant that any information that you provide in connection with your use of the Site 
is and shall remain true, accurate, and complete, and that you will maintain and update such 
information regularly. You agree that if any information that you provide is or becomes false, inaccurate, 
obsolete or incomplete, Samsara may terminate your use of the Site. 
 
Unless otherwise specifically agreed to by you and Samsara, by uploading, e-mailing, posting, publishing 
or otherwise transmitting information, sample data, event types, tags, comments, suggestions, content 
or other materials to the Site or Samsara (each a “Contribution”), you hereby acknowledge that such 
Contribution is non-confidential and automatically grant (or warrant that the owner of such rights has 
expressly granted) to Samsara a perpetual, irrevocable, world-wide, non-exclusive, sublicensable, fully 
paid-up and royalty-free license to use, make, have made, offer for sale, sell, copy, distribute, perform, 
display (whether publicly or otherwise), modify, adapt, publish and transmit such Contributions in any 
form, medium, or technology now known or later developed, and to grant to others rights to do any of 
the foregoing. In addition, you warrant that all so-called moral rights in the content have been waived. 
For each Contribution, you represent and warrant that you have all rights necessary for you to grant the 
licenses granted in this Section, and that such Contribution, and your provision thereof to and through 
the Site, comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. 
 
Samsara will not pre-screen or review Contributions, but Samsara reserves the right to refuse or delete 
any Contributions in its discretion. You acknowledge and agree that Samsara reserves the right (but has 
no obligation) to do one or more of the following in its discretion, without notice or attribution to you: 
 
(i) monitor Contributions as well as your access to the Site; 
 
(ii) alter, remove, or refuse to post or allow to be posted any Contribution; and/or 
 
(iii) disclose any Contributions, and the circumstances surrounding their transmission, to any third party 
in order to operate the Site, in order to protect Samsara, its suppliers or licensees and their respective 
employees, officers, directors, shareholders, affiliates, agents, representatives, and the Site’s users and 
visitors; to comply with legal obligations or governmental requests; to enforce these Website Terms; or 
for any other reason or purpose. 
Samsara disclaims any responsibility for the Contributions displayed on its Site. Samsara assumes no 
responsibility for the timeliness, deletion, mis-delivery or failure to store any Contributions or other user 
information or personalization settings. 
 
Samsara does not control the Community Content posted on the Site and, as such, does not guarantee 
the accuracy, integrity or quality of such Community Content. Under no circumstances will Samsara be 
liable in any way for any Community Content, including, but not limited to, liability for any errors or 
omissions in any content or for any loss or damage of any kind incurred as a result of the use of such 
content. By using the Site, you may be exposed to Community Content that is offensive, indecent or 
objectionable. You must evaluate, and bear all risks associated with, the use of such content, including 
any reliance on the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of such content. 
 
6. PURCHASES 
 
If you wish to purchase our products and services, for your convenience, we may provide links on the 
Site to a web store or e-commerce platform where you can make such purchases. Please be aware that 
the web store or e-commerce platform may be hosted, operated or managed by a third party, and may 
be governed by such third party’s website terms and conditions and privacy policy. We encourage you to 
read carefully those third-party terms and conditions and privacy policy prior to making any purchases. 
These Website Terms do not govern, and we are not responsible or liable for, your interaction with such 
third-party managed web store or e-commerce platform. 
 
7. RULES OF CONDUCT 
 
While using the Site you will comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. In addition, Samsara 
expects users of the Site to respect the rights and dignity of others. Your use of the Site is conditioned 
on your compliance with the rules of conduct set forth in this Section; any failure to comply may also 
result in termination of your access to the Site pursuant to Section 13 (Termination). You agree that you 
will not: 
• Post, transmit, or otherwise make available, through or in connection with the Site: 
• Anything that is or may be (a) threatening, harassing, degrading or hateful; (b) defamatory; (c) 
fraudulent or tortious; (d) obscene, indecent or otherwise objectionable; or (e) protected by 
copyright, trademark or other proprietary right without the express prior written consent of the 
owner of such right. 
o Any material that would give rise to criminal or civil liability   or that encourages conduct 
that constitutes a criminal offense. 
o Any virus, worm, Trojan horse or other computer code, file, or program that is harmful 
or invasive or may or is intended to damage or hijack the operation of any hardware or 
software. 
o Any unsolicited or unauthorized advertising, promotional materials, “junk mail,” 
“spam,” “chain letter,” “pyramid scheme” or investment opportunity, or any other form 
of solicitation. 
o Use the Site for any fraudulent or unlawful purpose. 
o Harvest or collect personally identifiable information about other users of the Site. 
o Impersonate any person or entity, including any representative of Samsara; falsely state 
or otherwise misrepresent your affiliation with any person or entity; or express or imply 
that Samsara endorses any statement you make. 
o Interfere with or disrupt the operation of the Site or the servers or networks used to 
make the Site available; or violate any requirements, procedures, policies or regulations 
of such networks. 
o Restrict or inhibit any other person from using the Site (including by hacking or defacing 
any portion of the Site). 
o Use the Site to advertise or offer to sell or buy any goods or services without Samsara’s 
express prior written consent. 
o Reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, resell or otherwise exploit for any commercial 
purposes, any portion of, use of, or access to the Site (including any content, Software 
and other materials available through the Site). 
o Modify, adapt, create derivative works of, translate, reverse engineer, decompile or 
disassemble any portion of the Site (including any content, Software and other materials 
available through the Site), except as and solely to the extent expressly authorized 
under applicable law overriding any of these restrictions. 
o Remove any copyright, trademark or other proprietary rights notice from the Site or 
content, Software and other materials originating from the Site. 
o Frame or mirror any part of the Site without Samsara’s express prior written consent. 
o Create a database by systematically downloading and storing all or any Site content. 
o Use any robot, spider, site search/retrieval application or other manual or automatic 
device to retrieve, index, “scrape,” “data mine” or in any way reproduce or circumvent 
the navigational structure or presentation of the Site, without Samsara’s express prior, 
written consent. 
 
8. LINKS 
 
You may find links to other websites on the Site. Those links will let you leave Samsara’s site. Samsara 
exercises no control whatsoever over such third-party websites and any contents or web-based 
resources found on those third-party sites and is not responsible or liable for the availability thereof or 
the content, advertising, products or other materials thereon or any updates or changes thereto. 
Samsara is providing these links to you only as a convenience, and the inclusion of any link does not 
imply endorsement by Samsara of any linked sites. Samsara shall not be responsible or liable, directly or 
indirectly, for any damage or loss incurred or suffered by any user in connection therewith. Your access 
and use of those websites, including your use of any content, information, data, advertising, products, or 
other materials on or available through such websites, is solely at your own risk is subject to the terms 
and conditions of use and privacy policy(ies) applicable to such sites and resources. Once you choose to 
be directed to another website, you should read that website’s privacy statement before disclosing any 
personal information. 
 
9. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES 
 
YOUR USE OF THE SITE IS AT YOUR OWN RISK. THE SITE AND ANY CONTENT, INFORMATION, PRODUCTS 
OR SERVICES MADE AVAILABLE ON OR THROUGH THE SITE ARE PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" AND "AS 
AVAILABLE" BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. SAMSARA AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS AND 
LICENSORS HEREBY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS WITH REGARD TO THIS SITE OR ANY 
INFORMATION, CONTENT, PRODUCTS OR SERVICES CONTAINED THEREIN, WHETHER EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS 
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. SPECIFICALLY, SAMSARA MAKES NO 
WARRANTY THAT (I) THE SITE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, (II) ANY USER ACCESS TO THE SITE 
WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, TIMELY, SECURE OR ERROR-FREE, (III) THE QUALITY OF ANY CONTENT, 
PRODUCTS, SERVICES, INFORMATION OR OTHER MATERIAL OBTAINED THROUGH THE SITE WILL MEET 
YOUR EXPECTATIONS, AND (IV) ANY ERRORS IN THE SOFTWARE WILL BE CORRECTED. THE SITE, THE 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AVAILABLE THROUGH THE SITE AND THE INFORMATION, CONTENT, 
SOFTWARE, DOCUMENTS, AND RELATED GRAPHICS PUBLISHED ON THIS SITE COULD INCLUDE 
TECHNICAL INACCURACIES, ERRORS, OR OMISSIONS. THE DISCLAIMERS OF WARRANTY AND 
LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY APPLY, WITHOUT LIMITATION, TO ANY DAMAGES OR INJURY CAUSED BY THE 
FAILURE OF PERFORMANCE, ERROR, OMISSION, INTERRUPTION, DELETION, DEFECT, DELAY IN 
OPERATION OR TRANSMISSION, COMPUTER VIRUS, COMMUNICATION LINE FAILURE, THEFT OR 
DESTRUCTION OR UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO, ALTERATION OF OR USE OF ANY ASSET, WHETHER 
ARISING OUT OF BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORTIOUS BEHAVIOUR, NEGLIGENCE OR ANY OTHER COURSE 
OF ACTION BY SAMSARA. 
 
 
10. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
 
IN NO EVENT SHALL SAMSARA AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS/LICENSORS AND ITS AND THEIR OFFICERS, 
DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL OR 
PUNITIVE DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH YOUR USE OF THE SITE OR THIS 
AGREEMENT INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY DAMAGES RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA, 
PROFITS OR OTHER INTANGIBLES, LOSS OF SECURITY OF INFORMATION YOU HAVE PROVIDED IN 
CONNECTION WITH YOUR USE OF THE SITE (HOWEVER ARISING, INCLUDING CONTRACT, EQUITY, 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION) EVEN IF ADVISED IN ADVANCE OF SUCH DAMAGES OR 
LOSSES. THE MAXIMUM LIABILITY OF SAMSARA AND OUR OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AND 
LICENSORS/SUPPLIERS TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTIES IN ANY CIRCUMSTANCE SHALL BE THE TOTAL 
AMOUNT, IF ANY, PAID BY YOU TO SAMSARA TO ACCESS AND USE THE SITE. SOME STATES DO NOT 
ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE 
LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. 
 
11. RELEASE 
 
In the event that you have a dispute with one or more Site users, you release Samsara (and our officers, 
directors, agents and employees) from claims, demands and damages (actual and consequential) of 
every kind and nature, known and unknown, suspected and unsuspected, disclosed and undisclosed, 
arising out of or in any way connected with such disputes. If you are a California resident, you waive 
California Civil Code 1542, which says: “A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor 
does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by 
him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor.” 
 
12. INDEMNITY 
 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, you shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Samsara, its 
licensors/suppliers and their respective officers, directors, employees and agents from any and all claims 
(including without limitation any proceeding, investigation or claim by a self-regulatory organization, 
state or federal securities agency or commission), demands, damages, costs and liabilities, including 
reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of or in connection with: (1) any of your Contributions, including 
an assertion that the information, content, or other materials or services provided or made available by 
you or the use thereof, may infringe any copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights of 
any individual or entity, or misappropriate any individual or entity's trade secret, or contain any libelous, 
defamatory, disparaging, pornographic, or obscene materials; (2) any breach by you of your obligations 
under these Website Terms including the Rules of Conduct set forth in Section 7; (3) your unlawful 
and/or unauthorized use of, or activities in connection with this Site. The foregoing indemnities shall 
survive expiration or termination of these Website Terms. 
 
13. TERMINATION 
 
Samsara may, in its sole discretion, at any time for any reason or no reason, terminate your access to 
this Site and any account(s) you may have in connection with this Site, including if Samsara believes that 
you have violated or acted inconsistently with the letter or spirit of these Website Terms or if it is 
required by applicable law, regulation, court or governing agency order. 
 
Our termination of any user’s access to the Site hereunder may be effected without notice and, on such 
termination, we may immediately deactivate or delete user’s account and/or bar any further access to 
such files, and your right to use the Site will immediately cease. Samsara shall not be liable to you or any 
third party for any termination of your access to the Site or account hereunder. 
 
14. CLAIMS OF COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT 
 
Samsara respects the intellectual property rights of others and asks that the people who use the Site do 
the same. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (the “DMCA”) provides recourse for copyright 
owners who believe that material appearing on the Internet infringes their rights under U.S. copyright 
law. If you believe in good faith that materials available on the Site infringe your copyright, you (or your 
agent) may send Samsara a notice requesting that we remove the material or block access to it. If you 
believe in good faith that someone has wrongly filed a notice of copyright infringement against you, the 
DMCA permits you to send Samsara a counter-notice. Notices and counter-notices must meet the then-
current statutory requirements imposed by the DMCA. See http://www.copyright.gov/ for details. 
Notices and counter-notices should be sent to: 
 
Copyright Agent 
Samsara Inc.  
1 De Haro Street 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
legal@samsara.com 
(415) 985-2400 
 
We encourage you to consult your legal advisor before filing a notice or counter-notice. 
 
15. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
 
Some of the information on this Site may contain projections or other forward-looking statements 
regarding future events or the future financial performance of Samsara. We wish to caution you that 
these statements are only predictions and actual events or results may differ materially. Such 
statements include those that (a) use the words “believes,“ “expects,“ “anticipates,“ “estimates“ or 
words of similar importance or meaning; (b) are specifically identified as forward-looking; (c) describe 
any of Samsara’s plans, objectives or goals for future operations and products; or (d) concern the 
characteristics and growth of Samsara’s markets or customers or Samsara’s expected liquidity and 
capital resources. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include economic, 
competitive, governmental and technological influences affecting Samsara’s operations, markets, 
products, services and prices. Further information on potential factors that could affect the actual 
financial results of Samsara are included in Samsara’s filings with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission; specifically, Samsara’s most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. Samsara does not 
assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events that occur or 
circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made. 
 
16. GENERAL 
 
The Website Terms constitute the entire agreement between you and Samsara with respect to your use 
of this Site and supersede all prior or contemporaneous communications and proposals, whether 
electronic, oral or written, between you and Samsara with respect to this Site. The Website Terms and 
the relationship between each user and Samsara shall be governed by the laws of the State of California 
without regard to its conflict of law provisions and each party shall submit to the personal and exclusive 
jurisdiction of the courts located within the county of San Francisco, California. If any provision of the 
Website Terms is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree 
that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision, and 
the other provisions of the Website Terms remain in full force and effect. A party may only waive its 
rights under these Website Terms, by a written document executed by both parties. Any failure to 
enforce any provision of these Website Terms shall not constitute a waiver thereof or of any other 
provision hereof. You may not assign, transfer or sublicense any or all of your rights or obligations under 
these Website Terms without Samsara’s express prior written consent. No provision of these Website 
Terms is intended for the benefit of any third party, and the parties do not intend that any provision 
should be enforceable by a third party either under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 or 
otherwise. 
 
17. CONTACT; NOTICES 
 
If you have any general question, comment or complaint regarding the Site, please send an e-mail 
to info@samsara.com. Formal notices to Samsara under these Website Terms (including a report of any 
violation of the Website Terms by any user) shall be sufficient only if in writing and transmitted via 
personal delivery or delivered by a major commercial rapid delivery courier service or by certified or 
registered mail, return receipt requested, to: Samsara Networks Inc., Attention: Legal Department, 1 De 
Haro Street, San Francisco, CA 94107, with a copy to legal@samsara.com. Notices to you may be made 
via posting to the Site, by e-mail, or by regular mail, in Samsara's discretion. Without limitation, you 
agree that a printed version of these Website Terms and of any notice given in electronic form shall be 
admissible in judicial or administrative proceedings based upon or relating to these Website Terms to 
the same extent and subject to the same conditions as other business documents and records originally 
generated and maintained in printed form. 
 